United States Patent 19

Tornetta

5,032,989
Jul. 16, 1991

[11] Patent Number:
[45] Date of Patent:

[54] REAL ESTATE SEARCH AND LOCATION
SYSTEM AND METHOD

Mark A. Tornetta, Plymouth
Meeting, Pa.

Realpro, Ltd., Plymouth Meeting,
Pa.

{21} Appl. No.: 342,577
{22] Filed: Apr. 24, 1989

[75} Inventor:

[73] Assignee:

Related U.S. Application Data

[63] Continuation-in-part of Ser. No. 841,515, Mar. 19,
1986, Pat. No. 4,870,576.

[ST] Trt, C15 ccc eeeeeeneenenererrersreeees GO6F 15/21
[S52] U.S. Ch. veces seceeeeeenee teeeaee 364/401; 340/731
[58] Field of Search ................ 364/401; 340/731, 995;
434/150

[56] References Cited

U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS
3,936,667 2/1976 Loubal ...... sce eseesetsceereteee 364/409
4,429,385 1/1984 Cichelli et al. .... .. 364/900 X
4,532,605 7/1985 Wallet .........ccseceeeesceneereee 364/900
4,553,206 11/1985 Smutek et al. ..... . 364/300
4,635,136 1/1987 Ciampa et al. ..... --- 358/342
4,870,576 9/1989 Tormetta o......cecccscseenetescereers 364/401
FOREIGN PATENT. DOCUMENTS

2105075 3/1983 United Kingdom ................ 364/401

OTHER PUBLICATIONS

Real Estate Agent (software), Albion, Div. of Queue,
338 Commerce Dr., Fairfield, CT 06430, released
9/1/86 (abstract only).

“Digitizer Option Introduced With StreetSmart 3.0”,

Computer Shopper, vol. 8, No. 12, Dec. 1988, p. 609
(abstract only).

“Once-ailing Mindbank Rebounds With New Real
Estate Package”, Pittsburgh Press (PA), May 24, p. D9
(abstract only).

“System Technology Develops CD-ROM Map Dis-
play System”, Comline Computers, Aug. 23, 1989, p. 3
{abstract only).

“Meitec Develops Network System Connecting Map
Information System with ISDN”, Comline Telecommu-
nications, Nov. 8, 1989, p. 4.

“New MAPINFO 4.0: Desktop Mapping on Network”,
PTS New Product Announcements, News Release May
10, 1990, p. 1.

“Graphic Real Estate’, Varbusiness, Oct. 1990, p. 16.

Primary Examiner—Jerry Smith
Assistant Examiner—David Huntley
Attorney, Agent, or Firm—-Ratner & Prestia

[57] “ABSTRACT

There is provided a method for locating available real
estate properties for sale, lease or rental using a database
of available properties at a central location and remote
stations which use a graphic interface to select desired
regions on a map of the areas in interest. The user begins
with a region where they are interested in acquiring
property and select an inner area within this region by
using a pointing device such as a mouse to designate
boundaries on a map displayed on screen. This is then
zoomed in on and a second area is selected within the
zoomed region. The second area is then cross-
referenced with the database of available properties
whose approximate locations are then pictorially dis-
played on screen. Information about the properties can
then be obtained in textual form.

12 Claims, 13 Drawing Sheets

SEARCH WINDOW CENTER TO INDEPENDENCE HALL DISTANCE =1 3.2 miles

huk

Bep Ol

PRESS F10 FOR HELP

Ses.
£-BS.

Thiladelphia

HELP

PRESS F 10 FOR

S/eqft MN=| MAX=50 SIZE MIN=100 MAX=!0000000 FRESH

PRESS F 10 FOR HELP

CIRCLE CENTER
TO NOEPENDENCE HALL DISTANCE =10.5m

RADIUS=2.4m SET=12

PRESS F 10 FOR HELP

we
S/sqft MIN=t MAX=50 SIZE MIN=|00 MAX=10000000 FRESH

U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 1 of 13 - 5,032,989

“. 100a 100b 4 100c a

REMOTE REMOTE REMOTE

SYSTEM

SYSTEM
I Ii

SYSTEM
I

{2a {2b {2c |
BUYER INPUT BUYER INPUT BUYER INPUT
DATA J DATA II DATA III
; 4c

{4b

14a
SELLER INPUT
SELLER INPUT SELLER INPUT DATA III
DATA T DATA II |
30 Us

FIG. 1


U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 2 of 13 - 5,032,989

FIG. 2

200

HOST SYSTEM

230

SEARCH OA
OF PROPE

USING BUYER'S
SPECIFICATIONS

TABASE
ATIES RECEIVE BUYERS
PROCESSING REQUEST

MAINTAIN

DATABASE

STATISTICAL
ANALYSIS OF

UPDATE ACCOUNTING

DATA FOR BUYERS
AND SELLERS

DATABASE AND
SEARCHES

PREPARE QUTPUT
, OF SEARCH
RESULTS

{00

REMOTE SYSTEM SELLER SYSTEM

110

PREPARE AND SENO
SPECIFICATION OF
SELLER'S PROPERTY

CREATE BUYER'S
SEAACH SPEC.

3)
—
as.
m

TRANSMIT BUYER'S
SEARCH FILE”
TQ HOST


U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 3 of 13 ~ 5,032,989

SEARCH WINDOW CENTER TO INDEPENDENCE HALL DISTANCE =I 3.2 miles

PRESS F110 FOR HELP
PRESS F 10 FOR HELP

gloucester >
Philadelphia

S/sq ft MIN=I MAX=50 SIZE MIN=100 MAX=| 0000000 FRESH

FIG. 3A

CIRCLE CENTER
TO INDEPENDENCE HALL DISTANCE =10.5m RADIUS=2.4m SET=12

PRESS F 10 FOR HELP
~ PRESS FIO FOR HELP

S/sq ft MIN=I| MAX=50 SIZE MIN=100 MAX=10000000 FRESH

FIG. 3B

U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 4 of 13 - 5,032,989

{12

—
em

OBTAIN NEW CENTERL
AND RADIUS FOR
DISPLAY CIRCLE ANO
NEW MIN-MAX LIMITS

118

PROMPT FOR &
INPUT PROPERTY
SPECIFICATIONS

FIG. 4 120
WALTE/OVERMRITE
SPECIFICATIONS
TO SAPROP. DAT

{22
CLOSE SRPROP. DAT
AND TRANSMIT TO
HOST SYSTEM

124

U.S. Patent

602

START

July 16, 1991 Sheet 5 of 13 5,032,989

636 610

MAP CENTER
AND RADUS TO
NEW CX, CY, RAD


U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 6 of 13 - 5,032,989

410

FIG. 6 412

INITIALIZE

VARIABLES

414

SCAN FOR
CURSOR
KEY
PRESSED

418

es |

| up-> INCDY |
| LEFT—> DEG DX |
: RIGHT—> INC DX |

RESET GLOBAL
COORDINATES
FOR DISPLAY

KEY
PRESSED=
PGDN?

428

CALCULATE
BOUNDS
OF VISRGN

MOVE VISRGN
TO COINCIDE
WITH VIEWPORT

U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 7 of 13 - 5,032,989

INFORMATION
START NUMBER
PROCESSING

136
‘

PASSWORD
ENTRY &
VERIFICATION
PROCESSING

138
\

FIG. 7

NAME,
INFO. NUM.
PASSWORD

MN
Qe

OPEN
FOR WRITE
144

CLOSE FILES

& ABORT


U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 8 of 13 — 5,032,989

154

OPEN
BUYTEL. DAT
~ FOR READ

DIAL. HOST AND
WAIT FOR
CONNECT

DISPLAY
CONNECTION

ERROR STATUS

MESSAGE

UPLOAD
BUYTEL. DAT TO
HOST WITH

WAIT AS HOST
PROCESSES


U.S. Patent

212

214

DELETE ENQUEUE
OLD PROPERTY
LISTINGS FROM

DATABASE

216

UPDATE CURRENT
RECORDS IN
DATABASE

218

ADD ENQUEVUE
NEW PROPERTY
LISTINGS TO
DATABASE

PROCESS
ADDITION QUEUE
AND
DELETION QUEUE

220

RUN DATABASE
STATISTICAL

ANALYSIS

222

July 16, 1991

Sheet 9 of 13 5,032,989

nN
O

21 7)

| VERIFY UPDATE |
RECORD INDB. |
ENQUEUE DELETE |
ENQUEUE ADD_ |

FIG. 9

U.S. Patent July 16, 1991 Sheet 10 of 13 ~- 5,032,989

706 504 +00
RESET INITIALIZE
VARIABLES START
710 712
BREAKN YES
DETECTED BROAN STOP
?
NO
DISPLAY
OPERATING
PARAMETERS FIG. 10
ON SCREEN
230

DOWNLOAD
FILE REMOTE
SYSTEM WITH

XMODEM
PROTOCAL

7356

UPLOAD
FILE FROM

REMOTE
SYSTEM

SUMMARY
DATA
REPORT

RECIEPT


U.S. Patent July 16, 1991

CARRIER
DETECTED
?

FIG. 11

Sheet 11 of 13 - 5,032,989

HANG UP PHONE
LINE AND
RESET MODEM
FOR NEXT CALL

U.S. Patent

264

SORT DATABASE

BY PRICE

266

LOCATE FIRST
PROPERTY

HAVING BUYER'S

MINIMUM PRICE

268

SET POINTER
TO PROPERTY
WITH MINIMUM
PRICE

270

LOCATE LAST
PROPERTY
HAVING BUYER'S

MAXIMUM PRICE

272

SET POINTER

TO PROPERTY
WITH |

MAXIMUM PRICE

274

SCAN FOR

MACHES FROM
MIN_PTR TO

MAX PTR IN
DA TAB A

July 16, 1991

Sheet 12 of 13 - 5,032,989

262

START

Nm
0)
Oo

FIG. 12

276

275

PRINT OUT

BUYER ID AND
MATCHED

PROPERTY IDs

YES

277

SAVE
SELECTED
SUMMARY DATA

STOP

U.S. Patent

July 16, 1991 Sheet 13 of 13 - 5,032,989

ENTER EXPLICIT
SELLER LISTING
AND ACCOUNT
TERMINATIONS

ADD NEW ACCOUNTS
TO CUSTOMER
FILES

DELETE OLD
(EXPIRED)
ACCOUNTS FROM
CLIENT FILES

ENTER NEW
RECEIPTS | -

CHARGE BUYER
ACCOUNTS FOR
PROPERTIES
LOCATED

FIG. 13

CHARGE SELLER
ACCOUNTS FOR
LISTINGS IN

DATABASE

PREPARE
STATEMENTS AND
SEND TO CLIENTS

316

5,032,989

1

REAL ESTATE SEARCH AND LOCATION
SYSTEM AND METHOD

TECHNICAL FIELD

This is a continuation-in-part of application Ser. No.
841,515 filed Mar. 19, 1986 of common inventorship and
assignment now U.S. Pat. No. 4,870,576.

The present invention pertains to data processing
systems for the location of real estate properties for
purchase through the use of an interactive graphical
locator interface for developing geographic area indica-
tions. :

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

Listings of available real estate are typically stored in
a central computer system, generally referred to as a
“multiple listing service’. This computer-stored listing
may be accessed through terminals for retrieval of spe-
cific information relating to a given property. However,
search of the stored information is typically dependent
on the operator’s intricate knowledge of the local area,
its political subdivisions, and informal housing tract
designations. Furthermore, such listings are usually
maintained for each county, and multiple accesses of
diverse systems are often required for a complete loca-
tion of all available properties. Finally, no provision for
searches by multiple criteria, including geographic lo-
cation is made in prior systems.

THEORY OF THE INVENTION

The system and method of the present invention com-
prises a host system for maintaining a database of avail-
able properties, receiving data from both buyers and
sellers of properties, and searching the database using
buyer’s criteria. The system and method of the present
invention also comprises seller and remote systems for
creating, storing, updating, and transmitting buyer and
seller data to the host. The system and method of the
present invention are applicable for residential, com-
mercial, industrial and other special purpose uses of the
real estate involving sale, lease or rent. Ail geographic
location performed by the system of the present inven-
tion employs a graphical locator interface for specifying
property locations.

The user can create a property search file by selecting
the “Create” option from the Main Menu. A viewport is
displayed and map boundaries are drawn on-screen.
Inside this display the user can control the position and
size of a “rubberband” window box. Properties appear
as dots on the map.

A labeled distance indicator is displayed which calcu-
lates the distance between the window box center and
the selected landmark location. The user can change the
landmark location from a menu of landmarks. The label
and distance indicator are then updated automatically.
As the user changes the window box position, the la-
beled distance indicator changes to reflect the distance
from the displayed landmark. The user can center the
window box over the landmark automatically [via the
home key]. Price and size minimum and maximum indi-
cators appear below the viewport. The user can change
the minimum and maximum indicators to refresh the
points display. Only these property points within. the
minimum-maximum limits are drawn. The data for these
points are referred to as the points file. The user can
change the size of the window box.

10

20

25

30

35

45

50

535 -

65

2

The user can then change the world coordinate dis-
play to equal the boundaries of the window box. The
size of the viewport remains constant so that the display
now appears to have zoomed down closer to earth. Map
boundary lines are displayed with greater detail and a
“rubberband” circle is displayed which allows the user
to enclose a search boundary on the map. The user can
then either return to the original zoom-up display or
save the center location and radius values of the rubber-
band circle.

The labeled distance indicator is redisplayed and now
calculates the distance between the rubberband circle
center and the current landmark location. The user can
change the size of the rubberband circle. A radius indi-
cator is displayed which calculates the radius of the
rubberband circle. As the user changes the position and
size of the rubberband circle, the labeled distance and
radius indicators are updated to reflect the changes.

Having entered the search location boundary, the
user is then prompted for the numerical range data
entries.

Having selected numerical range data values, the user
is then prompted with a series of menus and asked for
selections.

When the final menu is displayed and all data entries
have been successfully entered, the user has successfully
created a property search file and is returned to the
Main Menu.

The present invention comprises a system of com-
puter software for creating and maintaining both a real
estate property database and a corresponding file of
hard-copy real estate property listing advertisements,
and for allowing searches of the database. A “host sys-
tem” having a database can be searched from “remote”
computer systems by the use of a public domain soft-
ware program that is menu driven and includes a graph-
ical locator interface to specify accurate search location
boundaries.

The search facility enables a remote user to obtain a
custom selected portion of the hard-copy property lis-
ting file without having to obtain the entire file. The
search facility also enables the user to obtain many
different custom-selected sets of files from the hard-
copy property listing file.

The system of the present invention is implemented as
three main computer systems:

1. A host system which accepts both property listing
files and property search files from remote locations,
maintains the property database and performs searches,
reports system errors, maintains customer accounts, and
calculates statistics. The host system has:

(a) Download options - news files and points files

(b) Search options - search summaries and custom
searches

2. A property listing maintenance system which ena-

bles a remote user to create and update a property Hs-

ting file and then transmit it to the host system.

3. A property search maintenance system that enables
a remote user to create and update a property search file
and then transmit it to the host system. The system also
maintains archive files of searches that were already
processed.

Host Receiving System

The host system polls a standard telephone line while
waiting for remote data transmissions. When the host
system receives a call, it brings the telephone line off-
hook. If a carrier signal is detected, the host system

5,032,989

3
conforms to the specified communication parameters
and waits for incoming data.

The host system downloads a data file using an
XMODEM protocol. (downloads user file with
XMODEM). See 1. The host system then goes back
on-hook and polls the telephone line for more calls.

Any data transmission errors of spurious calls occur-
ring after the host system brings the telephone line
off-hook causes the host system to hang up and poll for
more calls.

Maintain

Received data files are placed on queues set up for
batch processing. A search queue, an addition queue,
and a deletion queue are all processed for application to
the property database. When batch processing in the
host system begins, the host reads the property database
into memory and processes the deletions queue. Next,
the addition queue is added to the property database.
The updated property database is then sorted so that the
search queue may be processed. When all the search
processing is complete, the property database is then
sorted again for filing and over-written to the property
database file on disk.

Custom Search

The search processing procedure compares property
data records to the search being processed. Minimum/-
maximum numerical fields in the property data records
are checked against the associated numerical ranges of
the search. Property data menu selections are checked
against their associated search menu selection arrays.
The distance from the property data records’ location
to the search area center location is calculated with the
distance formula and compared to the search boundary
radius value. The search processing produces several
files that are used for further processing. A file of search
results is produced which contains an identification for
each search on the search queue plus a list (if any) of the
properties that were selected in the search. From this
file, a file of customer mailing labels is produced. An-
other file is also created which contains a count of the
number of times each property data record was selected
during the search processing. This simplifies hard-copy
duplication tasks and eliminates unnecessary duplica-
tions.

During the subsequent processing, hard-copy dupli-
cates are made for materials relating to each property
selected. The results of each search are collected and
assembled from the duplicates and labeled for shipping.
The finished search results are then shipped to custom-
ers. See 2.

Accounting

Customer accounts are created and maintained by
separating the customers into two groups—Buyers and
Sellers. Buyer accounts are used to search the property
data file while Seller accounts are used for property
listings.

The Buyer account list contains records with identifi-
cation data fields and financial resource data fields. The
Buyer account system interactively prompts for new
Buyer accounts—automatically assigning serial num-
bers, and new payment data. The Buyer account list is
then read into memory from the Buyer account file so
that new accounts and payments can be added. The
resource field that accounts for time on the system is
automatically updated. Buyer account records with
deficient resource fields are automatically deleted. The
Buyer account file is then overwritten.

10

15

20

25

30

35

45

50

55

65

4

Similarly, the Seller account list also contains records
with identification data fields plus a resource data field.
The Seller account system interactively prompts for
Seller accounts to be terminated, new Seller account-
s—automatically assigning serial numbers, and new
payment data. The Seller account list is then read into
memory from the Seller account file so that new ac-
counts and payments can be added and terminations
processed. The resource field that accounts for time on
the system is automatically updated. Seller account
records with a deficient resource field are automatically
deleted. The Seller account file is then overwritten.

A log is written during the accounting process to
document all entries. It also serves to document any
automatic processing which may occur.

Both the Buyer and Seller accounting systems pro-
duce receipt files which are printed to inform the cus-
tomer of the results of processing. Serial numbers and
payment receipts are issued in this manner. Seller termi-
nations receipts are also issued in this manner.

Statistics

The host system calculates statistics by reading the
property data file into memory and traversing the prop-
erty database. Minimum, maximum, count, percentage,
mean, and standard deviation statistics are then calcu-
lated where applicable and written to a file with all
statistics being clearly labeled. This file includes special
printer functions so that a neat and organized report can
be printed. Price, size, X, and Y data are written to the
points file.

A system check routine is included to track potential
errors in both the Buyer and Seller accounting systems.
In the Seller accounting system, the Seller account file
is checked against the property database and the errors
are reported. In both the Buyer and Seller accounting
systems, accounts with deficient resources are also re-
ported.

Property Listing File Program

The Property Listing File Program is used to create,
maintain, and transmit property listing files to the host
system. It interactively prompts for entries, is error
trapped, and requires no previous knowledge about
either the remote or host systems.

The user can create a property listing file by selecting
the “Create” option from the Main Menu. A viewport is
displayed and map boundaries are drawn on screen.
Inside this display, the user can control the position of a
rubberband window box.

The user may then change the world coordinate dis-
play to equal the boundaries of the window box. The
size of the viewport remains constant so that the display
now appears to have zoomed down closer to earth. Map
boundary lines with erasable labels are displayed with
greater detail and a movable crosshair cursor is dis-
played which allows the user to pinpoint a location on
the map. The user can then either return to the original
zoom-up display or save the location of the crosshair
cursor.

Having selected a location, the user is then prompted
for the address of the property. The user must enter an
address. ‘

Having entered the address, the user is then prompted
for numerical property data entries. If an invalid value
is entered the user is again prompted for the same input.

Having entered the numerical property data entries,
the user is then prompted for tracking directions to the
property. If an invalid value is entered, the user is
prompted for the same input.

5,032,989

5

Having selected numerical property data values, the
user is then prompted with a series of menus and asked
for selections. If an invalid ment selection value is en-
tered the user is again prompted for the same input.

When the final menu is displayed and all data entries
have been successfully entered, the property listing data
is over-written to a disk file. The user has successfully
created a property listing file and is returned to the
Main Menu.

From the Main Menu the user can then choose to
update the property listing file currently on disk. By
selecting the “Display/Update”’ option the property
listing data is read into memory and the Display/Up-
date menu is displayed to allow the user to update either
the location, address, numerical or menu data sections
separately. When the user is finished editing a section,
he is returned back to the Display/Update menu to
allow him to edit another section.

The traveling directions update procedure displays
the property address data and allows the user to edit
each portion of the address separately. After editing a
portion of the traveling directions, the entire traveling
directions are redisplayed. When the user is satisfied
with the address data, he is returned to the Display/Up-
date menu.

The location update procedure is identical to the
property listing map/location interface described previ-
ously.

The numerical data update procedure displays the
numerical data and allows the user to edit each portion
separately. After editing a portion of the numerical
data, the numerical data is redisplayed. When the user is
satisfied with the numerical data, he is returned to the
Display/Update menu.

The menu data update procedure displays the menu
data and allows the user to edit each portion separately.
After editing a portion of the menu data, the menu data
is redisplayed. When the user is satisfied with the menu
data, he is returned to the Display/Update menu.

When the user is satisfied that the property listing file
is complete, he can select the “Print” option from the
Main Menu to print the Property Listing File. The
property listing data is read into memory and copied to
the printer with each value clearly labeled. When the
printing is compieted, the user is returned to the Main
Menu.

The completed property listing file may be transmit-
ted to the host system by selecting the “Send” option
from the Main Menu. The user is then prompted for
account identification data. The property listing file is
read into memory and the account identification data
added to it. All dialing and communications parameters
are set automatically and the program takes the remote
system off-hook and dials the host system. The remote
system then waits for a carrier tone. If no carrier is
present the remote system times-out and returns a diag-
nostic error message to the user. If a problem exists with
the remote system while off-hook, the program brings
the system back on-hook and displays a diagnostic error
message or aborts processing.

If the remote system receives a carrier tone from the
host system, the connection is established and the re-
mote system uploads the property listing file to the host
system using the XMODEM protocol. The remote
system then waits for a diagnostic message from the
host system and displays the message to the user. The
program then brings the telephone line back on-hook
and returns the user to the Main Menu.

5

10

15

2

°o

25

30

35

45

50

55

60

65

6

Property Search File Program

The Property Search File Program is used to create,
maintain, and transmit property search files to the host
system. It interactively prompts for entries, is error
trapped, and requires no previous knowledge about
either the remote or host systems.

From the Main Menu the user can then choose to
update the property search file currently on disk. By
selecting the “Display/Update” option ‘the property
search data is read into memory and the Display/Up-
date menu is displayed to allow the user to update either
the location, numerical ranges or menu data sections
separately. When the user is finished editing a section,
he is returned back to the Display/Update menu to
allow him to edit another section. When the user is
finished updating the property search data, the property
search data is over-written to the disk file and the user
is returned to the Main Menu.

The location update procedure is identical to the
search location map interface described previously.

The numerical range data update procedure displays
the numerical range data and allows the user to edit
each portion separately. After editing a portion of the
numerical range data, the numerical range data is redis-
played. When the user is satisfied with the numerical
range data that is displayed, he is returned to the Dis-
play/Update menu.

The menu data update procedure displays a category
menu to allow the user to edit each portion of the menu
data separately. After editing a portion of the menu
data, the menu data is redisplayed. When the user is
satisfied with the menu data, he is returned to the Dis-
play/Update menu.

When the user is satisfied that the property search file
is complete, he can select the “Print” option from the
Main Menu to print the Property Search File. The
property search data is read into memory and copied to
the printer with each value clearly labeled. When the
printing is completed, the user is returned to the Main
Menu.

The completed property search file may be transmit-
ted to the host system by selecting the “Send” option
from the Main Menu. The user is then prompted for
account identification data, search name data, baud rate
data, and dialing prefix data. The property search file is
read into memory and this data is added to it. The re-
maining communications parameters are set automati-
cally and the program takes the remote system off-hook
and dials the host system. The remote system then waits
for a carrier tone. If no carrier is present the remote
system times-out and returns a diagnostic error message
to the user. If a problem exists with the remote system
while off-hook, the program brings the system back on
hook and displays a diagnostic error message or aborts
“processing.

If the remote system receives a carrier tone from the
host system, the connection is established and uploads
the request to the host system. After waiting for pro-
cessing, it downloads the results. The program then
brings the telephone line back on-hook and returns the
user to the Main Menu.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE FIGURES

FIG. 1 is an overall block diagram of a system typical
of the present invention.

FIG. 2 is a functional block diagram of the system of
the present invention.

5,032,989

7

FIG. 3A is a depiction of a map generated on a CRT
according to the present invention.

FIG. 3B is a map showing greater detail and dis-
played on a CRT according to the present invention.

FIG. 4 is a flow diagram of the procedure create
buyers search specification file.

FIG. 5 is a flow diagram of the procedure obtained
new center and radius for display circle.

FIG. 6 is a flow diagram of a generalized procedure
for the zooming of the map display of the present inven-
tion.

FIG. 7 is a more detailed flow diagram of the proce-
dure close SRPROP.DAT and upload data to host
system.

FIG. 8 is a more detailed flow diagram of the proce-
dure upload request to host computer and prompt for
CR.

FIG. 9 is a flow diagram of the procedure maintain
data base.

FIG. 10 is a flow diagram of the procedure receive
buyers search specifications.

FIG. 11 is a flow diagram of the procedure receive
file from remote system and acknowledge.

FIG. 12 is a flow diagram of the procedure search
data base of properties using buyers specifications.

FIG. 13 is a flow diagram of the procedure update
accounting data for buyers and sellers.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION

Referring now to FIG. 1, there is shown an overview
block diagram of the entire system of the invention
which includes a host computer system 200 which is
connected by telecommunications links 20 to a plurality
remote computer systems 100A, 100B and 100C. Host
system 200 maintains a database of property listings 202
which contains a plurality of property listings submitted
by those with properties to sell, lease or rent. The data-
base is used for search and delivery of relevant property
information to those inquiring of the system with cer-
tain specifications to be described later. Host system 200
also maintains a set of client accounts 204, one account
per client (either a buyer or seller). Charging for the use
of the system is based upon a continual update of these
client accounts. Host system 200 also uses a mail service
30 such as the U.S. mail service (but not limited thereto)
for communication and billing purposes. Each remote
system, 100A, 100B and 100C, is capable of interrogat-
ing the database 202 by communicating a set of specifi-
cations for a desired property to be purchased to host
system 200. These specifications are derived from buyer
input data 12A, 12B and 12C. The buyer input data is
interactively gathered from the buyer by the remote
system, formatted, and transmitted with an error-check-
ing protocol to the host system. The host system either
processes the search data (also points files and news
files) on-line and returns a summary result or batches
the interrogation requests for subsequent processing
off-line. Similar to the communications functions by
host system 200, communications also occur with sellers
and remote system operators through mail service 30.

Referring now to FIG. 2, there is shown a procedural
overview block diagram of the present invention. The
system 10 of the present invention comprises three prin-
cipal components, host system 200, remote system 100,
and seller system 500. It will be understood that al-
though only one seller system 500 is shown, a plurality
of such systems exist and interface to host 20 . Similarly,
although only one remote system 100 is shown a plural-

10

15

20

25

30

35

45

65

8

ity of such systems exist and interface to host 200. The
procedural components of host system 200 include
maintain database procedures 210, search database pro-
cedures 260 receive buyers search specification proce-
dures 230, prepare output of search result procedures
280, statistical analysis procedures 290 (which includes
generation of the points file which consists of X, Y,
price and size data values for each property), and ac-
counting procedures 300.

Maintain database procedures 210 first deletes listings
that are no longer of use and then adds new listings to
the database. The source of new properties in the data-
base is seller system 500 wherein complete specifica-
tions are prepared and delivered to host system 200
through a variety of means. Database maintenance pro-
cedures 210 also include an additional amount of infor-
mation added through a location system for new prop-
erties to be described later.

Database search procedures 260 include an applica-
tion of buyer search specifications to the database. The
receiving of buyer search specifications is conducted
via telecommunications link 20 depicted in FIG. 1.
Remote systems according to the present invention are
interfaced via a modem or other such telecommunica-
tions device to host system 200 which controls its own
telecommunications line and receives :nformation from
remote systems with validation and error-checking
procedures. On receipt of such valid information a
search specification is built within host system 200 and
is queued for later processing during an off-line period
in the host. Receipt of a buyer specification file is ac-
knowledged to the remote system and a status message
is delivered prior to termination of the telecommunica-
tions link. The output of a database search, if successful,
is either a summary of the property record or will in-
clude a listing of a given buyer identification number
followed by the serial numbers of those property lis-
tings in the database which fall within the range of
specification created by the buyer. This listing which
pairs buyers with located properties then permits fur-
ther processing in host system 200.

The output listing from host system 200 is stored in
three files. The first file is the identification of the search
which identifies the actual buyer, the search name, and
the serial numbers of any properties which have been
selected. In addition, a list of mailing labels is created
with the names and addresses of the buyers for whom
searches have been performed. This list of mailing labels
is created by referencing the buyer identification num-
ber against the host system accounting files.

Another procedure in host system 200 counts the
number of times each property listing serial number was
selected during batch processing and writes that infor-
mation to a file, Subsequently duplicates of the individ-
ual property advertisements are made. Then, during
further processing, the searches are collected from
these duplicates and placed with the printed search
results into an envelope with the corresponding mailing
label and shipped to the buyer.

Another function of host system 200 is accounting
functions 300. These accounting functions include
charging for services rendered to both sellers and buy-
ers. Sellers are charged by the number of days that their
property advertisement is listed in the database. The
buyer is charged by the search. The type of search can
involve varying costs.

Typically the charge to buyers is done on a declining
balance arrangement, wherein a minimum charge of a

5,032,989

9

certain number of requests is applied regardless of the
outcome of any search, including invalidity of search
data.

Yet another function of host system 200 is statistical
analysis functions 290. Statistical analysis may occur on
the total contents of the database at any given time, the
average contents of the database over a longer period of
time, or statistical analysis may be performed to detail
the nature of search specifications being transmitted to
host system 200. X, Y price & size points file is written.

There are three basic types of variables used in the
system of the present invention: (1) numerical; (2) array
or menu selection; and (3) floating point location. Aver-
age minimum, maximum and standard deviation is com-
puted for numerical data. Finally a count of the number
of property listings in the database and a percentage of
those with a mortgage, and an average mortgage rate
are calculated. A second major component of system 10
is remote system 100. Remote system 100 is comprised
of two principle sub-systems: create search specification
file 110 and transmit search file 150. Create search speci-
fication file 110 is the module seen by potential buyers
of properties wishing to interrogate host system data-
base 202. The unique user interface incorporated within
module 110 includes a graphical locator which permits
precise location of desired area for property purchase
with reference to a global coordinate system. This loca-
tion is selected through the use of manipulator keys or
pointing devices such as a mouse, light pen or other
known devices which allow positioning of a graphical
interface selector in order to locate both property loca-

tion and distance specifications without resort to nu--

meric data on the part of the user.

From the main on-screen menu, the user selects the
create option. The system displays the graphical locator
interface which draws a map on the display (shown in
FIG. 3A) with points indicators. Superimposed over
the map is a window box that is non-destructive. The
user has control of the position and size of the window
box through a set of keys or locator. Also on-screen is a
distance indicator which calculates the distance in miles
from the center of the window box to a changeable
landmark location on the map. The user can display a
list of landmarks; change the selected landmark and the
actual display is automatically updated. The landmark is
also labeled on the map. The minimum/maximum indi-
cators appear below the viewpoint. These indicators
can be changed so that when refreshed, only those
points whose price and size are within the minimum/-
maximum limits are displayed. The user can also auto-
matically center the window box over the current land-
mark. After selecting the landmark, moving the win-
dow box, and selecting its size, the user activates a key
sequence to “zoom” the display. In other words, the
viewport will then display the actual boundaries of the
window box so that display appears to have zoomed
down closer to earth (shown in FIG. 3B). A “rubber
band” circle then appears which is normalized to the
size of the viewport. The user may move this circle on
the display and also change its size. There is displayed a
radius indicator indicating the actual radius of the circle
in miles along with a corresponding distance indicator
from the specified landmark. Once the user has selected
his search boundary by selecting an appropriate circle,
that data may be saved or changed.

After saving the location data, the user is prompted
for numerical range data, such as minimum and maxi-
mum price for the target listing. After having selected

20

25

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

10
several numerical ranges, a series of menus are dis-
played so that the user may select one or several selec-
tions on each menu.

After the completion of the questioning cycle, all
data entered by the user is stored as a search specifica-
tion. The user is then allowed to print hard copy of the
search specification prior to subsequent transmission of
the search specification to the host system. A second
procedure allows editing of a previously created search
specification. This process termed “update” presents a
list of the parameters entered by the user and allows any
given parameter to be modified, subsequently re-saving
the data and again presenting menu choices for trans-
mission to the host, further update, and creation.

After creation and validation of search specifications
and approval of the final specification by the buyer,
such specification is transmitted via telecommunica-
tions links 20 to host system 200 for application to the
database. After database search, results are prepared as
previously described and are transmitted or mailed back
to the potential buyer for his use.

A final component of system 10 is seller system 500,
which comprises preparation of a property specification
510. Such a property specification contains the same
data which is interrogated by a potential buyer, but such
data is definite and not in ranged numerical form. This
is obvious since a seller generally only has a fixed num-
ber of, for instance bedrooms in his house, and would
not necessarily specify that he has a house containing 2
to 4 bedrooms. After preparation of a seller specifica-
tion for a property, that information is transmitted to
host system 200 and used in database maintenance for
entry of new property information into the database.
After entry, such new property information becomes
available for search by all buyers.

Referring now to FIG. 4, there is shown a detailed
flow chart for Create Specification Procedure 110,
which is part of remote system 100. Create Specifica-
tion Procedure 110 begins at the block labeled start 112
and proceeds to initialize the various memory locations
and variables required for its own internal processing at
block 114. After initialization, the procedure obtains a
new center and radius (location information), and price
and size information from the user at 116. Obtaining
location information will be described more fully here-
inafter. After locating a desired search boundary, the
system prompts for and receives input regarding vari-
ous specifications of a property at 118. Such specifica-
tions include ranges for price, lot size (in minimum/-
maximum indicators), number of bedrooms, and other
numerical data, as well as menu selections for home
style, sewage system, roof type, and other such housing
elements. After receiving and validating all such infor-
mation, a specification file labeled SRPROP.DAT is
written to a mass storage device for saving until future
processing can commence at 120. Finally, the file so
written is transmitted to host system 200 at block 122
and processing to create a property stops at stop block
124. Block 122 is depicted on FIG. 2 as block 150,
“transmit buyer’s search file to host.”

Referring now to FIG. 5, there is shown a more
detailed view of procedures required for obtaining new
center and radius for property location purposes shown
as block 116 on FIG. 4. The procedures for obtaining a
new radius and center depend upon the creation of a
scaled map (shown in FIGS. 3A,B) of the target area
over which the database contains properties. This map
is generated on a display screen for use by the user.

5,032,989

11
Procedure 116 begins at start block 602 and initializing
its own variables in order to begin processing. Such

variables are local in scope and do not interfere with .

initialization processing conducted by the calling rou-
tine at 114.

Control travels from start block 602 to block 604,
where it is seen that the variables are initialized. After
the variables are initialized, the world coordinates are
set to their maximum values in block 606. Next, the
points file must be read into memory from the down-
loaded points file sitting in the user’s disk storage me-
dium, as shown in block 608.

Control then proceeds to decision block 610, where it
is determined whether the user has completed his loca-
tion boundary selection. If the user has completed this
selection, control proceeds to block 636, where it is
shown that the center and radius coordinates for the
map are changed to the new center and radius coordi-
nates, just selected. Then, the data values corresponding
to the min and max indicators displayed on the screen
are saved to a disk file. Then the procedure stops at
block 640. If the user has not completed his boundary
location selection, processing proceeds from decision
block 610 to block 612, where the last selected (most
current) world coordinates are retrieved from memory.
These world coordinates are then used in block 614 to
redisplay the map through the fixed viewport. The
points file is then drawn, as shown in block 616. The
min/max indicators, which are displayed on screen, are
set in block 617.

In decision block 618, it is determined whether the
min/max indicators have changed. If they have, the
points file is erased in block 622. A “filter” is used to
eliminate points not within the limits of the min/max
indicators set in block 617. In this way, when control
leaves block 620 to block 616, only the new points
within the set min/max indicators will be redrawn. If it
is determined at decision block 618 that the min/max
indicators have not been changed, control proceeds to
decision block 624.

At decision block 624, an evaluation of the variable
“DONE” is performed. If DONE is equal to 0, this is
indicative of the fact that the user wishes to zoom the
display downward, that is, obtain a more detailed view
of a smailer area of the map, and zoom down procedure
628, described more fully hereinafter, is executed. In the
event that done is not equal to 0, evaluation 626 checks
whether done is equal to 2. If it is, this is an indication
that the user wishes to zoom up, that is, view a larger
area of the map with correspondingly less detail, also
described hereinafter. In the event that done is not equal
to O or 2 as determined in decisions 624 and 626, pro-
cessing continues by looping to execute decision 610 to
determine whether the user has indicated that he is
finished with the property location selection procedure.
If the user is finished, as indicated at decision 610, the
new center and radius of the selected region are stored
in variables indicative of the center CX and CY and
indicative of the radius RAD and processing terminates
at stop operation 640.

Operations 628 zoom-down and 630 zoom-up are
depicted as a general procedure type in FIG. 6 as zoom
view system 400. Processing begins at start block 410
and proceeds through a local initializaticn of variables
at block 412. ;

After variable initialization, actual key strokes and
locator position are monitored by the program so that
the initialized position variable can be incremented or

10

15

20

25

30

35

45

50

55

65

12

decremented to change the size or location of the circle
or window box. All corresponding variables that are
associated with the center locations are updated with
these incremental values.

In the specific case of operation of the remote system
on an IBM personal computer. Various special keys
located on the cursor key pad are indicative of desired
functionality within the zooming procedures. For in-
stance the plus (+) symbol key is indicative of the users
desiring a zoom-out operation while the minus (—)
symbol key is indicative of the users desiring to zoom-in
the display. The cursor keys, left arrow, right arrow, up
arrow, and down arrow, move the center location of
the viewing selection region (whether a rectangle or a
circle) in directions corresponding to north, south, east,
and west. The page down (PgDn) key actually executes
a selected zoom by changing the world coordinate sys-
tem to match the view selector. The page up (PgUp)
key resets the world coordinate system to its maximum,
thus zooming out. After the selection of zoom mode and
function, the bounds of the region which is to be visible
on the screen, are calculated at operation 420. Decision
422 indicates whether the user has attempted to move
the window box past the bounds of the viewport. If
such an attempt has been determined at decision 422,
operation 424 resets the incremental step value applied
to the location variable to 0 to prevent further move-
ment of the window box. Processing then loops and
continues at scan for cursor key operation 414.

In the special case of the actuation of the page down
(PgDn) key, detected in operations 416 and 418, and
compared for in decision 419, the indication that the
user is satisfied with the new coordinates of the window
box results in operation 426 wherein the global coordi-
nates are reset to the parameters defined for the new
window box. Processing then terminates at stop opera-
tion 428.

Close and transmit operation 122 of system 110 is
detailed more fully in FIG. 7 which depicts system 122,
prepare to transmit search file to host. FIG. 7 depicts
the preparation of the search file for transmission which
commences operation at start block 124 and proceeds to
process the information number which is indicative of
the particular buyer using the system at 134. At 136, the
user is prompted to enter a password and that password
is verified for its format.

At I/O operation 138, the search name information
number and password are read and, if valid, at block 140
a file “SUYTEL.DAT” is opened for writing. Decision
142 verifies that the previously created SRPROP.DAT
file exists. If the file does not exist, no search data is
available and no branch is taken to operation 144 which
closes all files and aborts the transaction because of a
lack of search data. Assuming such search data exists,
the data is copied from SRPROP.DAT to BUYTEL.-
DAT at operation 146. Processing then proceeds to
transmitting the data at operation 150, and then termi-
nates at stop block 152.

Referring now to FIG. 8, there is shown a more
detailed flow chart of the operations of transmission
operation 150. Transmission operation 150 commences
operation at start block 154. At operation 156, the previ-
ously created BUYTEL.DAT file is open for read, and
at block 158 the modem is instructed to dial the tele-
phone to the host system 200 and wait for verification of
connection with that system. At decision 160, a verifica-
tion of correct connection parameters is made. If the
connection is incorrect due to telecommunications net-

5,032,989

13

work conditions such as busy signal or no answer, a
connection error is indicated at block 162 and process-
ing continues by displaying a connection error message
at block 163 and terminating at stop block 172. Pro-
vided that the connection has occurred successfully as
determined at decision 160, operation 166 the remote
system uploads the request to the host using an
XMODEM protocol and waits for the request to be
processed in block 167. After host processing, the re-
mote system downloads the response file from the host
in block 169. The XMODEM protocol is used for all
transmission from the remote system 100 to host system
200 and assures integrity of transmitted and received
data.

The contents of BUTYEL.DAT are transmitted to
the host processor with XMODEM and after process-
ing results are returned to the remote system with
XMODEM.

Referring now to the processes and systems compris-
ing host system 200, maintain database processing 210
shown in FIG. 9 commences at start block 212 and first
queues for deletion property listings whose time in the
database has expired as indicated by explicit orders to
remove or an expiration indicated from the seller ac-
count file at 214. At block 216 the changes to current
records in the database are processed by update. This
process includes a verification of the presence of a re-
cord for the property in the database, a queuing of a
deletion of that existing record, and a queuing of the
adding of the updated record for that property. At
block 218 all new properties are queued for addition to
the database, and at block 219 the deletions queue and
then the additions queue are applied to the database in
order to bring the database up to current daily condi-
tion. Finally, a statistical analysis and points file genera-
tion procedure of the newly-updated database is per-
formed at 220 and processing terminates at stop block
222,

Referring now to FIG. 10, there is shown a more
detailed description of the receive buyer’s processing
request, 230. Processing begins at start block 702 and
proceeds to block 704, where the variables are initial-
ized. In block 706, the modem is reset to an operational
state.

Decision block 708 determines whether a break in
communications has occurred. If it has, the program is
terminated in block 710 and processing stops in block
712. If no break is detected at block 708, processing
proceeds to block 714, where the communications oper-
ation parameters are displayed on-screen to the user.
Processing then proceeds to block 716, where the pro-
cess request file is downloaded from the remote system
to the host using XKMODEM.

Decision block 718 determined whether a custom
Teport request has been entered. If not, processing goes
to decision block 720, where it is determined whether a
summary report request has been entered. If not pro-
cessing proceeds to decision block 722, where it is de-
termined whether a points file has been requested. If
not, processing then proceeds to block 724, where, by
default, it is known that the news file is to be returned to
the user.

Should decision block 718 determine that a custom
report has been requested, processing proceeds to block
726, where the file is stored for batch processing to later
produce a bound custom report which is then sent to the
user in block 728. If decision block 720 determines that
a summary report request has been entered, processing

20

25

30

45

50

55

65

14
proceeds to block 730, where the database is searched
for the information necessary to generate the summary
report, and then the summary report is returned in
block 732. If decision block 722 determines that a points
file request has been entered, processing proceeds to
block 734, where the points file is returned to the user.

Block 736 uploads the files returned in blocks 728 or
732 or 734 or 724 to the remote system using
XMODEM.

Referring now to FIG. 11, there is ‘shown a more
detailed view of block 246 receive file from remote
system and acknowledge. Processing begins at start
block 802 and proceeds to decision 804 wherein a car-
rier detect (CD) is monitored. If no carrier has been
detected, processing proceeds to block 812 wherein the
phone line is hung up and the modem is reset for the
next call. Processing then terminates at block 814. Ifa
carrier is detected at decision 804, then the modem is
taken off-hook and ready to receive information. At
block 806, the user file is downloaded with XMODEM.
Processing then proceeds to block 808, where the user
file is processed. Then, at block 810, the results of the
processing from 808 are uploaded to the user. At block
812 the phone line is hung up and the modem reset for
the next call. Processing then terminates at block 814.
See revised FIG. 10.

Referring now to FIG. 12, there is shown a more
detailed view of function 260 search database of proper-
ties. Processing commences at start block 262 and first
proceeds to operation 264 wherein the database is
sorted according to the price of properties contained
therein. At block 266 the first property having the buy-
ers specified minimum price is located, and at block 268
a pointer is set to point to that record containing the
property. At block 270 the last property having the
buyer specified maximum price is located and at block
272 a second pointer is set to the record containing that
property. At block 274 a complete scan of all properties
between the two pointers is conducted for matching all
parameters specified by the buyer in the transmitted file.
At decision block 275, it is determined whether results
are the same for custom search processing. If customer
search processing is required, control proceeds to block
276 where parameters are saved as property custom
serial numbers. Selected data items are copied to a file
and at I/O operation 276 the buyer ID for the particular
search being processed together with the property se-
rial numbers located during the matching process are
written to a storage device for further processing. Addi-
tionally, information extracted from the accounting file.
containing the buyers name and address information for
mailing label purposes is written to a storage device for
further processing.

If custom search processing is not required, control
proceeds to block 277, where the selected summary

‘data items are stored. Processing then terminates block

278.

Referring now to FIG. 13, there is shown the ac-
counting function 300 of host system 200. Processing
begins at start block 302 and proceeds to block 303
where explicit seller listing account terminations are
entered into the accounting system. Such terminations
occur upon the sale of a property, generally, and cause
the seller to be immediately cleared from the system. At
block 304 new accounts received are added to the client
files for both sellers and buyers. At block 306 old ex-
pired accounts are removed from the client files, both
for buyers and sellers. At block 308 new cash receipts

5,032,989

15

are entered into the system and at block 310 buyer ac-
counts are debited according to the number of searches
and according to the formulas previously described. At
block 312 seller accounts are charged for the mainte-
nance of property listings within the database. At block
314 the accounting files are scanned and statements are
prepared for transmission to clients. Processing termi-
nates at block 316.

Further details pertaining to the preferred embodi-
ment are presented in the Appendix.

Preferably, the present invention may be imple-
mented on an IBM or compatible personal computer
system. Assuming sufficient memory and mass storage,
the host system, seller system and remote system may
operate on separate computers which communicate via
the public telephone’ network using conventional
modems.

The system software used to implement the system
may include Greenleaf Softwar Communications Li-
brary MicroSoft MS-DOS 1™, HALOTM graphics,
and a language compiler such as MicroSoft C, or its
equivalent.

While the present invention has been described with
reference to certain specific instances and examples, it
will be understood by those skilled in the art that these
are merely illustrative and are in no way intended to
limit the scope of the invention. The true spirit and
scope of the invention should therefore be construed
only by reference to the appended claims.

I claim:

1. A method using a computer for locating available
real estate properties comprising the steps of:

a) creating a database of the available real estate prop-

erties;

b) displaying a map of a desired geographic area;

c) selecting a first area having boundaries within the
geographic area;

d) zooming in on the first area of the displayed map to
about the boundaries of the first area to display a
higher level of detail than the displayed map;

e) displaying the zoomed first area;

f) selecting a second area having boundaries within
the zoomed first area;

g) displaying the second area and a plurality of points
within the second area, each point representing the
appropriate geographic location of an available
real estate property; and

5

10

15

20

25

30

35

45

50

55

65

16

h) identifying available real estate properties within
the database which are located within the second
area.

2. The method of claim 1 in which step (e) includes
the further step of printing a report containing the loca-
tion of the available real estate properties identified
within the database.

3. The method of claim 2 in which there is included
the further step of providing additional information
regarding the features of the available real estate prop-
erty.

4. The method of claim 1 in which there is included
the further step of storing the points in a separate points
file, containing at least the location information of the
available real estate property.

5. The method of claim 1 wherein steps (d) and (e)
utilize a pointing device.

6. The method of claim 1 further comprising the steps
of:

i providing characteristic information of the available
real estate properties in the database of available
real estate properties;

j selecting at least one of the characteristics of the
available real. estate properties; and

k modifying the display of points to represent the
available real estate properties having the selected
characteristics.

7. The method of claim 1 wherein the database of the
available real estate properties created in step (a) in-
cludes available commercial properties.

8. The method of claim 1 wherein the database of the
available real estate properties created in step (a) in-
cludes available residential properties.

9. The method of claim 1 wherein the data base of the
available real estate properties created in step (a) in-
cludes available real estate properties for rental pur-
poses.

10. The method of claim 1 wherein the database of
the available real estate properties created in step (a)
includes available real estate properties for lease pur-
poses.

11. The method of claim 1 wherein the database of
the available real estate properties created in step (a)
includes available real estate properties for commercial
purposes.

12. The method of claim 1 wherein the database of
the available real estate properties created in step (a)
includes available real estate properties for residential

purposes.
* * * * *
