US007885982B2

a2) United States Patent (10) Patent No.: US 7,885,982 B2
Wight et al. (45) Date of Patent: Feb. 8, 2011
(54) METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CREATION (58) Field of Classification Search «0.0.0.0... 707/10,
AND MAINTENANCE OF DATABASE 707/102, 200, 802, 999.01, 999.102, 999.202;
STRUCTURE 709/203; 705/26, 27
See application file for complete search history.
(75) Inventors: Robert Wight, Celebration, FL (US); (56) References Cited
Josh Griffin, Kissimmee, FL (US);
Timothy Tryzbiak, Orlando, FL (US); U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS
Anibal Santiago, Orlando, FL (US); 4,992,940 A * 2/1991 Dworkin oc. 705/26
Dale Couch, Orlando, FL (US); Edward .
H. Benson, III, Celebration, FL (US); (Continued)
David A. Crossmier, III, Oviedo, FL FOREIGN PATENT DOCUMENTS
(US); David M. Schrader, Windermere,
FL (US) WO WO-0039738 Al 7/2000
(Continued)
(73) Assignee: Channel Intelligence, Inc., Celebration, . . .
FL (US) Primary Examiner—Cheryl Lewis
(74) Attorney, Agent, or Firm—Patton Boggs LLP
(*) Notice: Subject to any disclaimer, the term of this
patent is extended or adjusted under 35 (57) ABSTRACT
U.S.C. 154(b) by 162 days. The invention provides a method for configuring a database
: system to store information regarding a plurality of items, the
(21) Appl. No.: 12/133,184 method comprising: establishing a database on a computer
(22) Filed: Jun. 4, 2008 system; establishing within the database a first object corre-
, ™ sponding to a first item of the plurality of items; generating
(65) Prior Publication Data within the first object at least one field; associating a field
identifier with each the field; and storing at least a portion of
US 2009/0006220 Al Jan. 1, 2009 the information within each the field; the database system
an configured to store information regarding a plurality of items,
Related U.S. Application Data each item in the plurality of items having at least one item
(60) Continuation of application No. 11/068,424, filed on attribute, the database system comprising a computer having
Feb. 28, 2005, now Pat. No. 7,584,210, which is a memory, a database stored in said memory, a first object in
division of application No. 10/035,635, filed on Dee. said database corresponding to one item of the plurality of
28, 2001, now Pat. No. 6,917,941. items, said first object corresponding to the first item, at least
one field in said first object, a field identifier associated with
(51) Int. Cl. each said field, and information regarding said first item
G06F 17/30 (2006.01) stored in said first object.
(52) U.S.C cece 707/802; 707/770; 705/26;

709/203

CLIENT
COMPUTER
SYSTEM

30

CLIENT
COMPUTER
SYSTEM

PROVIDER
COMPUTER
SYSTEMS
80

CLIENT COMPUTER
SYSTEM

22
COMMUNICATIONS
NETWORK COMMUNICATIONS
20 LINK

14 Claims, 7 Drawing Sheets

SERVER
COMPUTER
SYSTEM

PROVIDER
COMPUTER
SYSTEMS

80

40

PROVIDER

COMPUTER
SYSTEMS

80


US 7,885,982 B2

Page 2
U.S. PATENT DOCUMENTS 2001/0037259 Al 11/2001 Sharmaetal. ......ccc 705/26
2002/0062275 Al 5/2002 . 705/37

5,004,270 A 4/1991 Broderick et al. .......... 283/48.1 2002/0069153 Al 6/2002 705/37
5,047,614 A 9991 Bianco... we 235/385 2002/0128851 Al* 9/2002 Chefalas et al. ........0005 705/1
5,361,871 A 11/1994 Gupta et al. .. 186/61 2002/0152131 Al 10/2002 Lee ~ 705/26
5,630,068 A 5/1997 Vela et al. ... ve 705/1 2002/0184102 Al 12/2002 Markopoulos et al. ........ 705/26
5,696,366 A 12/1997 Ziarno ..... .. 235/380 2003/0018540 Al 1/2003 Volpietal. wc 705/26
5,754,981 A 5/1998 Veeneman etal. ... ... 705/26 2003/0050848 Al* 3/2003 Defayette et al. .. 705/26
5,774,874 A 6/1998 Veeneman etal. ............ 705/26 2003/0080999 Al 5/2003. Stone etal. .....ccceee 715/751
5,870,716 A 2/1999 Sugiyama et al. ............. 705/26 2003/0115107 A1l* 6/2003 Amensen etal. wc. 705/26
5,898,594 A 4/1999 Leason etal. ..... .. 700/231 2003/0120550 AL* 6/2003 Peyrelevade et al. .. 705/26
5,909,023 A 6/1999 Ono etal. ...... .- 235/380 2003/0131021 Al 7/2003 Wightetal. .......ce. 707/200
5,970,474 A 10/1999 LeRoy etal. ... w+ 705/27 2003/0139969 A1* 7/2003 Scroggie et al. veces 705/26
5,999,914 A 12/1999 Blinn etal. .... ... 705/26 2003/0167209 Al 9/2003 Hsieh ~ 705/26
6,026,376 A 2/2000 Kenney .....cceecees 705/27 2003/0167222 Al 9/2003 _Mehrotraetal. oo... 705/37
6,076,091 A 6/2000 Fohnet al. ........ wee 707/102 2003/0172005 Al 9/2003 Hellal etal. ov... 705/27
6,272,472 B1* 8/2001 Danneels et al. ..... w. 705/27 2003/0225632 Al 12/2003 Tongetal. ... .. 705/27
6,535,880 Bl 3/2003 Musgrove et al. .... we. FO7/10 2004/0107145 Al 6/2004 Skurdal et al. .. 705/26
6,609,106 Bl 8/2003 Robertson ......... .. 705/26 2004/0249643 Al 12/2004 Ouyang et al. .. 705/1
6,643,624 B2 11/2003 Philippe et al. +++ 705/26 2004/0249723 Al 12/2004 Mayer wees. . 705/26
6,691,112 Bl 2/2004 Siegel et al... 707/10 2005/0004880 Al 1/2005 Musgrove et al. .. 705/400
6,693,236 Bl 2/2004 Gouldetal. ...... . 84/477 R
6,725,222 Bl 4/2004 Musgrove et al. 0.0.00... 707/10 FOREIGN PATENT DOCUMENTS
7,065,940 B2* 6/2006 Dudek et al. ...... w. 53/473
7,072,859 B1* 7/2006 Huber ........ .. 705/26 WO WO-0127837 A2 4/2001
7,136,829 B2 11/2006 Hellal et al. ws 705/26

7,496,525 BL* 2/2009 Mitchell oe 705/26 * cited by examiner

US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 1 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

b Old

08

SWALSAS =
YalndNoo 08 WALSAS
u3QIAONd SWBISAS YBLNdWOD LNAI
oa YBLNdNOD ——
o8 YadIAONd oc
SINAISAS
= YsLNdNOd
OF YaOIAOd =
te
WALSAS
Y3iNdNOo oO
U3ANRS
ze

eb

MINIT Oz
asveuva SNOLIYOINNAWOO RHOMLN
SNOLWOINNWNOD OO

ISVEVIVd
Wall

0€
WAISAS

YALNdWOO
LNAITO

WILSAS
YALNdNOD
LN3IN0

US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 2 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

lew

i]

AiO\SIH = SOWOARJ Ud.

@

(COC)
——x)

{SOI0}S JO ys MOLA ED
1SOL0S9}89 JINpOId MalA ima}
isd ynueag ©

‘> yonpoud Aue so) youeas

npolg e puly

yonpolg
e puly

ae | aWOH © USayay dogg PUBAOY yoeg
3) ey ? ) (2) + ad

dia sjooT sawonby mai pS aig


US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 3 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

THT OHTUOS @
Boag OETUIOS B
SHS TTD B
FaoNg ORTTIG B

SH0g seduoey B

6EZLIS
6EEPIS
88'6E2S
00°689$

66'60S$

} es

new

a

"> aUIyseW 1UaWUUIE Pal yUuaZ

“+ guiysew juawUIeVa}Uy UyuaZ

OSESS-AD eyewe, @es9s + oozsas equso,

o0z60S equysoy

00Z90S eqiysos

s12held GAG

0} ppy e ado

st 9Y jonpolg 1s!
ae pul4 Q oy uU

AIOSIH + Sawoaes YoIvaS awoH © yseajay dog  « PleMIOl 2

@o © ®8 ? @ ®) «

dja S|OO] SaWOABy MOIR PZ aiid


US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 4 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

QQ su0ndo]
(%2z)

LL'SS$ ‘dAes NOA SOIUONISI ‘BIPSyy —w
SE VELG ‘89g INC sunoy
66 6PZ$ :80Hd IS!) vz ur sdiys Ajjensry

equusol Aq 25 (CT)
Joke} OAplA MN
“GAG NONN O00€z -aS eqlyso, feSSS 3) ee) I aig

@600$ o0z6aS eqiysoL

‘SOJOYS JO St} MBIA FED
sseuofayes yonpay nal, FL]
isdy yeas @

ce CO]

“++ yonpoud Aue 40) yuueas

lONpOld & puly

v6'bLts “Tsou O0EZ -AS eqlysoy jonpold or s!1

9p 2 Puls uedo

Sa DS
up Q Wid Wey | AiosiH} seoaej Yyueeg SwOH YS9JJ9Y dos « PPMIOZ « = =6oeg

a oe 3] © & 8 7 G] ) ha nd

dja soo] seywore, mei wpa eld

0S

US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 5 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

(%22)
LL'Sg$ :oAes NOA Souda] -eIpayy
88 PELS -8dd JNO sunoy
66'692$ :99Ng ISI] pz ul sdiys Ayensry

eqiysol Aq
Jahe|q CaptpA

“GAC NONN 00€Z -GS eqlysOL CSF

1st] yanpold
0} ppv Eh op @ puly

ipa Wid ew AIOISIH} = seyovRy = Yoleag BWOH =: USOJ@e das

“a @& G@ 1 eo 8 8 W gy 6@

‘SB10}S JO jsq] MOI A FED
iseuoBeyeo Janpolg Mo1A, CJ
‘sd yeas ©

Sa

+ * yonpoud Aue 40) youeas

OL py

2 PIBMAIO4 on
=

dja sjoo[ saonty moi ups ats


US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 6 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

9

OTF

89

Aunqeneay yg Buysyg} (oyu) a0) 199)

“syetudy 4110 Ue 000r 170

ay) um Ayqedes peas premyseq s)SB0q pue ‘eIpaU Aj ,., 902,10 Psepuels sasn
09 ede) oy) “yun jeusa]U) Apeas-uoyesBoyu) ue se pasnGyuos s} pue s0}0e)

wo; yBtu-sleu .p/L-G paepueys eB ul paGeyoed si og ade! ayL ‘oye1 zaysuey
pucoas/gw 9/€ @ pue Aypedes gd 08/Op 8 SIayO 0g ede aus

(LO-LLLL) SANG 08 SdVL

Ang oj, Moy | Aleve pepuaxg | ipa) | Uonnjos vojewony | sjonposg sang
[SA SFI7eD J HRNRTIE opIsHT] [SeuHeK J [wouRny J [auaInIOg W seeIA

Lay YORIS

wud EW | AN0ISIH, «SAAR = YsEaS awoy = Yysasjary dag . psenuoj, . eg

eo BB 8 v gg © al »

djaH sjoo[ soon mayq py ally

eo

US 7,885,982 B2

Sheet 7 of 7

Feb. 8, 2011

U.S. Patent

Z

SB 6br'LS 08 3dV1

66.6by'IS (LO-LbEL) SAING 08 SdVL PL

00'6ry'LS bLO-bbEL- SANG 08 AdVL

Buyyes queyqoy
zouNeg) SWeN JONpold CL
:Aq wos

“SyBWO} L110 PU COOP 17G Su) YIM Aiigedes pees prznyjoeg siseog Aue ‘EIPOW At 4, 0021 1Q picpuels sesn
09 Odey BY, “HUN jeusaIW Apess-uoONesBayu! Ue se pasnGyuod Ss] NUE JO;9e) Wd) YBE-eY .p/1-G Prepums
e ul poBexoed si og ode, aus “oie soysueN puooesygw) OE © PUE AjEde? gd Oa/Or & IYO OB odeL OUL

(LO-LLEL) SAINO 08 AdVL

peyy | AJOISIH =s@qoaes Yyaeas awoH ysayay dog. plemio4 4. eg

ie o BD 8 VY Gl) C) # »

dio sjool sowoney mai py ally

US 7,885,982 B2

1

METHOD AND APPARATUS FOR CREATION
AND MAINTENANCE OF DATABASE
STRUCTURE

CROSS-REFERENCE TO RELATED
APPLICATIONS

This application is a continuation of U.S. patent applica-
tion Ser. No. 11/068,424, U.S. Pat. No. 7,584,210, entitled
“Method and Apparatus for Creation and Maintenance of
Database Structure,” filed on Feb. 28, 2005, which is a con-
tinuation of U.S. Pat. No. 6,917,941 (application Ser. No.
10/035,635) entitled “Method and Apparatus for Creation
and Maintenance of Database Structure,” filed on Dec. 28,
2001, the entire disclosures of which are incorporated by
reference.

FIELD OF THE INVENTION

The present invention relates generally to the field of rela-
tional databases. More particularly, the present invention
relates to a relational database that facilitates electronic com-
merce or “e-commerce” as conducted on an electronic com-
munications network through the creation, maintenance and
update of electronic lists, made up of items in the database,
from any point on the electronic communication network.

BACKGROUND OF THE INVENTION

The growth of electronic communications networks, such
as the Internet, as well as various intranets, extranets, and
other local area networks (LANs) and wide area networks
(WANs) has presented a fertile ground in which to transact
commerce. The amount of commerce transacted on-line over
these networks has grown such that online or electronic com-
merce (also known as “e-commerce”) has become a major
channel through which goods and services are bought and
sold. In parallel with the growth in electronic commerce has
come a growth in the information available regarding the
goods and services available for sale online. As this growth
has occurred, online providers of goods and services have
sought to develop ever more efficient means of linking poten-
tial customers with the goods and services sought by those
potential customers.

Despite these efforts, inefficiencies continue to pervade the
mechanisms used to transact e-commerce. At present, poten-
tial customers have numerous locations from which to obtain
information regarding goods and services for sale online.
Many of these locations provide the potential customers with
the ability to capture and evaluate information regarding the
goods and services for sale at that particular location. How-
ever, the potential customers are not provided with a satisfac-
tory tool for capturing, cataloging and evaluating the infor-
mation gathered at all of these locations against each other,
nor are they provided with a tool for updating the information
that they have captured and cataloged. Likewise, potential
customers are left with no tool for capturing information
regarding products and services for sale online and products
and services for sale offline in a single location. Instead, the
potential customer is left to individually visit multiple loca-
tions to manually catalog the information captured at one
location against information captured at other locations. The
potential customer must manually evaluate the information
captured online against other information captured online and
against information captured offline. Potential customers are
further required to individually re-visit each location (both
online or offline) to update previously captured information.

20

25

40

45

60

65

2

Without an adequate tool that enables the potential customer
to efficiently and effectively capture, aggregate, catalog,
evaluate, and update information from all sources in a single
place, potential customers find themselves ill equipped to
evaluate the myriad collection of often varying prices, inven-
tories, and terms under which the goods and services that they
are seeking to purchase are being offered for sale both online
and offline. As a result, the online purchasing process often
proves far less efficient and effective than other sales chan-
nels. Untold online business opportunity is lost when poten-
tial customers become overwhelmed with the information
available to them in the online purchasing process and never
reach the point of consummating their sale. Likewise, untold
future sales are lost as post-sale frustration ensues when the
customers realize that their purchase did not take place at the
price and on the terms that were the most favorable available
to them at the time of sale because they failed to fully and
effectively evaluate all of the information and options avail-
able to them both online and offline.

Thus, while e-commerce is a viable channel of selling
goods and services, from the viewpoint of the consumer, it is
often not an efficient and effective channel of buying goods
and services. It would be highly desirable to have a method
and apparatus that enabled consumers to more fully utilize the
possibilities of e-commerce.

BRIEF SUMMARY OF THE INVENTION

The invention solves the problems described by providing
a single tool that allows the potential customer to capture and
aggregate the volume of information regarding the products
and services that are available to them online in a single
database. Preferably, the single tool also allows the customer
to capture and aggregate offline purchasing information in the
same database. This tool preferably permits the analysis of all
information, captured both online and offline, in a single
location. Preferably, the location can be any computer con-
nected to the Internet that is available to the potential cus-
tomer. The tool preferably provides potential customers with
automated updates of the information regarding the goods
and services that the potential customer is considering pur-
chasing throughout the period of time during which the
potential customer is making a purchasing decision. Like-
wise, once a decision to purchase a good or service is made,
the tool preferably provides a direct path online to the dealers
of that good or service. The tool is preferably independent of
any given online or offline provider of goods or services, and
“sits above” the network through which providers offer their
goods and services for sale. The tool allows the potential
customer to efficiently and effectively locate and evaluate
information regarding goods and services offered by many
providers, preferably both on and offline, without tying the
potential customer to any one provider.

The invention further solves the problems described by
providing a single tool that allows a manufacturer to establish
and maintain a display on its web site. The display of infor-
mation preferably contains information regarding the ven-
dors at which the products produced by the manufacturer are
offered for sale, either online or offline. The present invention
allows a manufacturer to establish a direct link from the
display of information to the web sites of the vendors offering
the manufacturer’s products for sale online. Preferably, the
display of information includes information regarding the
price, availability, and features of the manufacturer’s prod-
ucts. The information displayed is automatically updated
with changes in existing information or new information.
Preferably, the manufacturer may customize the display of

US 7,885,982 B2

3

information to include only the information regarding its
products, and only the vendors offering its products, that the
manufacturer desires to include in the display.

The invention preferably provides a data structure for
facilitating the efficient storage and retrieval of information
regarding the products and services in the form of a database.
The information regarding each product or service is stored in
the form of an object in the database. Each object contains a
number of fields. Each field in each object in the database
corresponds to a defined attribute of the products and services
to be stored in the database. Preferably, each object contains
a field corresponding to an attribute of the product or service
stored in that object for which there is information available.
The attribute to which each field corresponds is preferably
also one of the defined attributes of the products and services
to be stored in the database. Preferably, each field has an
associated identifier corresponding to the attribute to which
the field corresponds. Preferably each object has an associ-
ated identifier corresponding to the product or service stored
in the object. Preferably, objects and fields are able to be
referenced and retrieved from the database by way of their
identifiers.

The invention provides a method for configuring a data-
base system to store information regarding a plurality of
items, the method comprising: establishing a database on a
computer system; establishing within the database a first
object corresponding to a first item of the plurality of items;
generating within the first object at least one field; associating
a field identifier with each the field; and storing at least a
portion of the information within each the field. Preferably,
for the plurality of items, the method further provides: defin-
ing at least one attribute of the plurality of items; creating a
field identifier corresponding to each defined attribute of the
plurality of items, the field identifiers comprising a set of field
identifiers; and wherein the step of generating comprises:
obtaining item information regarding the first item; dividing
the item information into at least one category, wherein each
category corresponds to a field identifier; and generating
within the first object a field corresponding to each the cat-
egory. Preferably, the step of associating comprises, for each
field: selecting from the set of field identifiers the field iden-
tifier that corresponds to the same defined attribute of the
plurality of items that the field corresponds to; and associat-
ing the selected field identifier with the field. Preferably, each
field identifier is unique. Preferably, each field identifier
includes a numeric code. Preferably, each defined attribute of
the plurality of items describes a trait of the plurality of items
and each defined attribute of the item describes a trait of the
item. Preferably, the step of defining at least one attribute of
the plurality of items comprises: obtaining information
regarding the plurality of items; dividing the information
regarding the plurality of items into at least one category; and
defining an attribute of the plurality of items that describes the
information in each category. Preferably, the information
regarding the plurality of items is obtained from an analysis of
the plurality of items. Preferably, the item information is
obtained from an analysis of the plurality of items. Preferably,
the step of storing comprises, for each the field, storing in the
field the item information in the category corresponding to the
field.

Preferably, each field is identifiable and retrievable from
the database by way the field identifier. Preferably, each field
identifier is unique. Preferably, the information regarding the
first item is a first product or a first service. Preferably, the
information within each field is information regarding the
first product or the first service, respectively. Preferably, the
database is a relational database. Preferably, an object iden-

20

25

40

45

60

65

4

tifier is associated with each object identifier. Preferably, each
object identifier is unique. Preferably, each object identifier is
a user name and password. Preferably, each object is identi-
fiable and retrievable from the database by way of the object
identifier.

In another aspect, the invention provides a method for
configuring a database system to store information regarding
a plurality of items, the method comprising, for each item in
the plurality of items, defining at least one attribute of the
plurality of items, creating a field identifier corresponding to
each defined attribute of the plurality of items, the field iden-
tifiers together comprising a set of field identifiers, establish-
ing a database on a computer system; establishing within the
database a first object corresponding to a first item of the
plurality of items, obtaining item information regarding the
first item, dividing the item information into at least one
category, wherein each category corresponds to a field iden-
tifier, generating within the first object a field corresponding
to each category, selecting from the set of field identifiers the
field identifier that corresponds to the same defined attribute
of the plurality of items that the field corresponds to, associ-
ating the selected field identifier with the field, and, for each
field, storing in the field the item information in the category
corresponding to the field.

In another aspect, the invention provides a database system
configured to store information regarding a plurality of items,
each item in the plurality of items having at least one item
attribute, the database system comprising: a computer having
memory, a database stored in the memory, a first object in the
database corresponding to one item of the plurality of items,
the first object corresponding to the first item, at least one field
in the first object, a field identifier associated with each field;
and information regarding the first item stored in the first
object. Preferably, the plurality of items have a predetermined
set of attributes, and the computer system includes a prede-
termined list of field identifiers, each field identifier in the
predetermined list corresponding to one of the predetermined
set of attributes, and the at least one field comprises one field
corresponding to each attribute in the predetermined set of
attributes for which information is known regarding the first
item. Preferably, the at least one field comprises one field
corresponding to each attribute in the predetermined set of
attributes that is also an item attribute of the first item. Each
field identifier associated with each field preferably com-
prises the field identifier corresponding to the attribute in the
predetermined set of attributes to which the field corresponds.
Preferably, the field identifier associated with each the field
comprises an identifier unique to the attribute in the predeter-
mined set of attributes to which the field identifier corre-
sponds. Preferably, each field identifier associated with each
field comprises a unique field identifier. Preferably, each field
identifier associated with each field comprises a numeric
code. Each attribute of the predetermined set of attributes
preferably comprises a trait of the plurality of items and each
attribute of each item in the plurality of items comprises a trait
of that item. Preferably, the information regarding the first
item stored in the first object comprises information regard-
ing the first item stored in each field of the first object. Pref-
erably, the information stored in each field of the first object
corresponds to the same attribute of the first item to which the
field corresponds. The database is preferably adapted to cat-
egorize the information regarding each item into categories
wherein the information in each category describes an
attribute of the item, and defines the attribute described by the
information in each category. Preferably, each field in the first
object is identifiable and retrievable from the database by way
of the field identifier associated with that field. Preferably, the

US 7,885,982 B2

5

information regarding the plurality of ttems comprises infor-
mation regarding a plurality of products, services, or product
and services. The database preferably comprises a relational
database. Preferably, an object identifier is associated with
the first object. Preferably, each object identifier comprises a
unique identifier. Preferably, each object identifier comprises
a user name and password. Preferably, the first object is
identifiable and retrievable from the database by way of the
object identifier.

In another aspect, the invention provides a method for
configuring a database system to store a plurality of lists
containing information regarding a plurality of items, the
method comprising: establishing a list database on a server
computer system, the list database including a first list asso-
ciated with a first list identifier, establishing a management
tool on a client computer system, remote from the server
computer system, the management tool including the list
identifier, establishing a communications link between the
client computer system and the server computer system,
retrieving the first list from the list database to the manage-
ment tool responsive to the first list identifier, revising the
retrieved first list, and updating the first list in the list database
to reflect the revision to the retrieved first list. Preferably, the
step of establishing a list database comprises: establishing
within the list database a first list object corresponding to the
first list, generating within the first list object a first list field,
associating a first list identifier with the first list object. Pref-
erably, the step of retrieving comprises retrieving the first list
object from the list database. Preferably, the step of revising
comprises storing in the first list field of the retrieved first list
object information regarding one of the plurality of items, the
one of the plurality of items being the first item. Preferably,
the step of updating comprises updating the first list object in
the list database to reflect the revision to the retrieved first list
object. The step of generating preferably comprises associat-
ing a first list field identifier with the first list field, the first list
field identifier corresponding to the information stored in the
first list field. Preferably, the step of revising comprises stor-
ing in the first list field information corresponding to the first
list field identifier. The step of associating preferably com-
prises: generating the first list identifier, and associating the
first list identifier with the first list object. Preferably, the first
list identifier is unique. Preferably, the first list identifier
includes a user name and password generated by a user of the
list database.

Preferably, the step of revising comprises: establishing an
item database on the server computer system, the item data-
base including stored information relating to the first item;
and creating a pointer in the first list field referencing the
information relating to the first item stored in the item data-
base. The step of revising preferably comprises: establishing
an item database on the server computer system, the item
database including stored information relating to the first
item, and creating a copy in the first list field of the informa-
tion relating to the first item stored in the item database. The
step of revising further preferably comprises, responsive to a
command issued to the management tool, identifying the first
list field and revising the first list field to remove the stored
information regarding the first item from the first list field.
The step of revising further preferably comprises: establish-
ing an item database on the server computer system, the item
database including first item information relating to a first
item, and responsive to a command issued by the manage-
ment tool, revising the first list field to include a pointer
referencing the first item. Preferably, the method comprises
retrieving the first item information from the item database to

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

6

the management tool; and displaying a graphical representa-
tion of the first item information on a user interface of the
management tool.

Preferably, the step of revising comprises: capturing infor-
mation relating to a first provided item, and the step of revis-
ing comprises revising the first list field to include a pointer
referencing the first provided item. The step of capturing
preferably comprises: establishing a communications link
between the client computer system and an item provider
computer system, the item provider computer system remote
from the client computer system and including information
relating to a first provided item, responsive to a command
issued to the management tool, locating the first provided
item on the item provider computer system, and capturing the
information relating to the first provided item. Preferably, the
step of capturing comprises: providing a template database on
a template database server computer system remote from the
client computer system, the template database including one
or more templates, each corresponding to an information
structure, determining a structure for the information relating
to the first provided item, retrieving a template corresponding
to the structure from the template database to the manage-
ment tool, applying the template to the provided item infor-
mation to parse the information relating to the first provided
item, and capturing the parsed information with the manage-
ment tool. Preferably, the step of revising comprises: estab-
lishing an item database on the server computer system, the
item database storing information relating to a plurality of
items, comparing the captured information relating to the first
provided item with the information stored in the item data-
base relating to the plurality of items, responsive to a pre-
established rule, revising the information stored in the item
database relating to the plurality of items to include the infor-
mation relating to the first provided item. Preferably, the step
of revising comprises revising the first list field to include a
pointer referencing the information relating to first provided
item in the item database. Preferably, the step of responsive to
a pre-established rule, revising the information stored in the
item database relating to the plurality of items comprises:
determining if the information stored in the item database
relating to the plurality of items includes the captured infor-
mation relating to the first provided item, and revising the
information stored in the item database relating to the plural-
ity of items to include the captured information relating to the
first provided item if the information stored in the item data-
base relating to the plurality of items does not include the
captured information relating to the first provided item.

Preferably, the step of revising comprises: providing infor-
mation relating to a first provided item to the management
tool, establishing an item database on the server computer
system, the item database storing information relating to a
plurality of items, revising the information stored in the item
database relating to the plurality of items to include the infor-
mation relating to the first provided item. Preferably, the step
of revising comprises revising the first list field to include a
pointer referencing the information relating to the first pro-
vided item in the item database.

Preferably, the first list field stores information regarding a
first item. Preferably, responsive to a command issued by the
management tool, the method includes the steps of establish-
ing a communications link between the client computer sys-
tem and an item provider computer system, the item provider
computer system remote from the client computer system and
offering the first item for sale, and facilitating the purchase of
the first item from the item provider computer system. Pref-
erably, the step of revising comprises the step of capturing
purchase information relating to the purchase of the first item

US 7,885,982 B2

7

and updating the first list in the list database to reflect the
inclusion of the purchase information in the retrieved first list.
The purchase information preferably comprises information
relating to one or more of: price, quantity, shipping method,
and delivery date. The step of establishing a communications
link between the client computer system and the server com-
puter system preferably comprises establishing a communi-
cations link using one or more of the Internet, a wide area
network, and a local area network. The step of establishing a
communications link between the client computer system and
the list database server computer system preferably com-
prises: providing a browser tool on the client computer sys-
tem, instructing the browser tool to locate the item provider
computer system; and instructing the browser tool to search
the item provider computer system for the provided item
information.

Preferably, the method comprises: establishing an item
database on the server computer system, establishing within
the item database a first item object corresponding to the first
item, generating within the first item object at least one item
field, associating an item field identifier with each item field,
and storing at least a portion of the information regarding the
first item within each item field. The step of revising prefer-
ably comprises storing in the first list field of the retrieved first
list object a pointer referencing the first item object.

Preferably, the method comprises: establishing an item
database on the server computer system, the item database
storing information relating to the plurality of items, captur-
ing information regarding a first provided item and informa-
tion regarding a provider of the first provided item, comparing
the captured information with the information stored in the
item database relating to the plurality of items to determine if
the captured information is included in the information stored
in the item database, and revising the item database to any
captured information not included in the information stored
in the item database. Preferably, the step of revising com-
prises: establishing within the item database a first ttem object
corresponding the first provided item, generating within the
first item object at least one item field, associating an item
field identifier with each item field, and storing a portion of
the information regarding the first provided item within each
item field. Preferably, the step of revising comprises estab-
lishing within the item database a first provider object corre-
sponding to the item provider, generating within the first
provider object at least one item field, associating a provider
field identifier with each the provider field, and storing a
portion of the information regarding the item provider within
each provider field. Preferably, the item database includes a
first ttem object, comprising associating the provider object
with the first item object. Preferably, the step of revising
comprises storing in the first list field of the retrieved first list
object a pointer referencing the first item object. Preferably,
the first list includes a first item and wherein the step of
revising comprises the step of, responsive to a command
issued to the management tool, identifying the first item and
revising the retrieved first list to remove the first item from the
retrieved list.

The step of revising preferably comprises: establishing an
item database on an item database server computer system
remote from the client computer system, the item database
including item information relating to a first item, responsive
to acommand issued by the management tool, retrieving the
item information from the item database to the management
tool, and responsive to a command issued by the management
tool, capturing the item information relating to the first item,
and revising the retrieved first list to include the item infor-
mation relating to the first item.

20

25

40

45

60

65

8

The step of revising comprises: establishing a communi-
cations link between the client computer system and an item
provider computer system, the item provider computer sys-
tem remote from the client computer system and including
information relating to a first provided item, responsive to a
command issued to the client computer system, locating the
first provided item on the item provider computer system,
capturing the information relating to the first provided item
with the management tool, and responsive to a command
issued by the management tool, revising the retrieved first list
to include the information relating to the first provided item.
Preferably, the step of capturing comprises: providing a tem-
plate database on a template database server computer system
remote from the client computer system, the template data-
base including one or more templates, each corresponding to
an information structure, determining a structure for the
information relating to the first provided item, retrieving a
template corresponding to the structure from the template
database to the management tool, applying the template to the
provided item information to parse the information relating to
the first provided item; and capturing the parsed information
with the management tool. Preferably, the step of revising the
retrieved first list comprises establishing an item database on
an item database server computer system remote from the
client computer system, the item database including stored
information relating to a first item, comparing the information
relating to the first provided item with the stored information
relating to the first item, responsive to a pre-established rule,
revising the stored information relating to the first item to
include the information relating to the first provided item, and
responsive to a command issued to the management tool,
revising the retrieved first list to include the information relat-
ing to the first provided item. Preferably, the step of respon-
sive to a pre-established rule, revising the information relat-
ing to the first item comprises: determining if the information
relating to the first provided item and the information relating
to the first item relate to the same item, and revising the
information relating to the first item to include the informa-
tion relating to the first provided item if the information
relating to the first ttem relates to the same item as the infor-
mation relating to the first provided item. Preferably, the step
of revising comprises providing information relating to a first
provided item to the management tool, and, responsive to a
command issued to the management tool, revising the
retrieved first list to include the information relating to the
first provided item.

Preferably, the retrieved first list includes a first item and
the method comprises, responsive to acommand issued by the
management tool, establishing a communications link
between the client computer system and an item provider
computer system, the item provider computer system remote
from the client computer system and offering the first item for
sale, and purchasing the first item from the item provider
computer system. Preferably, the step of revising comprises:
capturing purchase information relating to the purchase of the
first item, and updating the first list in the database to reflect
the inclusion of the purchase information in the retrieved first
list. Preferably, the purchase information comprises informa-
tion relating to one or more of: price, quantity, shipping
method, and delivery date. Preferably, the step of establishing
a communications link between the client computer system
and the list database server computer system comprises estab-
lishing a communications link using one or more of the Inter-
net, a wide area network, anda local area network. Preferably,
the step of establishing a communications link between the
client computer system and the list database server computer
system comprises, providing a browser tool on the client

US 7,885,982 B2

9

computer system, instructing the browser tool to locate the
item provider computer system, and instructing the browser
tool to search the item provider computer system for the
provided item information.

In another aspect, the invention provides a method for
creating an electronic list of items, the method comprising:
establishing a list database on a server computer system,
establishing a management tool on a client computer system
remote from the server computer system, the management
tool including a list identifier, establishing a communications
link between the server computer system and the client com-
puter system, responsive to a signal issued by the client com-
puter, establishing a communications link to an item provider
computer system remote from both the server computer sys-
tem and the client computer system, locating an item on the
item provider computer system, responsive to a command
issued to the management tool, adding a pointer referencing
the item to a list associated with the list identifier in the list
database on the server computer system.

In another aspect, the invention provides a method for
maintaining an electronic list, the method comprising: estab-
lishing a management tool on a client computer system, the
management tool including a list identifier, establishing on a
server computer system remote from the client computer
system an item database including item information relating
to a first item, and a list database including a list associated
with the list identifier, the list including the first item, estab-
lishing a communications link to an item provider computer
system remote from both the server computer system and the
client computer system, responsive to a command from the
server computer system, updating the item information in the
item database; and responsive to a command issued to the
client computer system and the list identifier, retrieving to the
client computer system the updated information correspond-
ing to an item on the list associated with the list identifier.

In another aspect, the invention provides a method for
maintaining an electronic shopping list on a computer system
linked to a network, the shopping list including at least one
record, each record containing information relating to a prod-
uct, the method comprising: establishing a shopping list man-
agement toolbar on an Internet browser on a client computer
system, the client computer system in communication with
the Internet, establishing on a server computer system in
communication with the Internet, a shopping list database,
the shopping list database including a first shopping list hav-
ing a shopping list identifier, providing the shopping list
identifier to the shopping list management toolbar, commu-
nicating the shopping list identifier to the shopping list data-
base, retrieving a copy of the first shopping list from the
shopping list database to the shopping list management tool-
bar responsive to the shopping list identifier, establishing
communications via the Internet with a product provider
computer system, the product database including product
information relating to a first product, revising the retrieved
copy of the first shopping list on the shopping list manage-
ment toolbar to include a pointer referencing the product
information relating to the first product, and updating the first
shopping list in the shopping list database to reflect the revi-
sions to the retrieved shopping list.

Numerous other features, objects and advantages of the
invention will become apparent from the following descrip-
tion when read in conjunction with the accompanying draw-
ings.

BRIEF DESCRIPTION OF THE DRAWINGS

FIG. 1 is a block diagram of a preferred embodiment of a
network on which the present invention is intended to operate;

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

50

55

60

65

10

FIG. 2 is an exemplary view of acomputer screen depicting
the operation of the user interface of the management tool in
an embodiment of present invention;

FIG. 3 is another view of the computer screen of FIG. 2
showing the display of items from the item database of FIG.
1;

FIG. 4 is yet another view of the computer screen of FIG. 2
after the connection to a provider web site;

FIG. 5 is a further view of the computer screen of FIG. 2
illustrating the capture of information from the provider web
site; and

FIGS. 6 and 7 are views of a computer screen depicting the
operation of the user interface of the management tool in
another embodiment of present invention.

DETAILED DESCRIPTION OF THE INVENTION

As will be described in greater detail below, the present
invention relates to a data structure for use in creating and
maintaining electronic databases of information. Referring to
FIG. 1, the embodiments of the present invention are imple-
mented as logical operations in a computer system, suchas 10
and 30. The logical operations of the embodiments of the
present invention are implemented as a sequence of com-
puter-implemented operations, steps or modules running in
the form of computer software on the computing system. One
of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the particular
implementation of the operations, steps or modules compris-
ing the present invention will depend on the decisions of the
individual practicing the invention, the capabilities of the
computer system or systems on which the present invention is
to be implemented, and the demands to be placed on the
present invention during operation. Accordingly, it is to be
understood that the present invention need not be restricted to
a single embodiment, and it is to be further understood that
any embodiment implementing the operations, steps and
modules described herein and shown in the attached draw-
ings, and their equivalents, is intended to come within the
scope of the present invention.

As will be described in greater detail below, databases and
systems 12, 13, of databases embodying the data structure of
the invention are particularly well-suited to the creation and
maintenance of user-defined electronic lists of goods, ser-
vices and other items. In one such embodiment, the invention
allows online customers to create and maintain electronic lists
52 (FIG. 2) made up of products and services being offered
for sale both on and off the Internet. An electronic list created
by such an embodiment of the invention may be accessed
from any computer 30 linked to the Internet, regardless of
where the list was first created or last accessed. Once
accessed, a list created by such an embodiment of the inven-
tion may be updated by capturing information from an online
database of information, from a Web page on which a product
or service is displayed, or manually from any source available
to the user of the list. Each list created by such an embodiment
of the invention is universal and is independent from any
given single provider of goods or services. The list of such an
embodiment of the invention facilitates automatic updating of
the electronic list whenever new information, such as a lower
price, relating to a good or service on the list becomes avail-
able. The invention may thus be used by an online customer to
maintain a single electronic list having products and services
that are offered for sale by various vendors or providers of
goods or services. In another embodiment, the invention
allows for manufacturers of goods and providers of services
to establish lists of their own goods and services on their own
web sites and to maintain direct links from those lists to web
sites where those products and services are offered for sale. In
this embodiment of the invention, online customers visiting

US 7,885,982 B2

11

the web site of a manufacturer or provider maintaining such a
list are thus able to link directly to a web site on which they
can purchase the product or service without leaving the web
site of the manufacturer or provider. The list of this embodi-
ment of the invention further facilitates automatic updating of
the manufacturer’s list as new information about the goods or
services on the list, such as inventory and dealer stock,
become available.

As noted above, the invention relates to a data structure for
creating and maintaining a database. A database embodying
the data structure of the present invention is implemented as
asequence of computer software operations, steps or modules
on a computer system. In particular, a database embodying
the data structure of the present invention takes the form of a
relational database, such as 12 and 13, of the type accommo-
dating the storage and retrieval of information in the form of
records populating the database. Each record populating a
database embodying the present invention takes the form of
an object. Each object corresponds to a particular product,
service, or other item and stores information relating to that
product, service, or item. The information stored in each
object includes information regarding one of the products,
services, or other items about which information is stored the
database. Each object may be provided with an object iden-
tifier used to identify that object within the database. The
information is organized according to a data structure defined

5

15

20

25

12

by fields. Each field is assigned a field identifier and stores
information. The type of information stored in each field is
determined by the field identifier given to the field. Each field
identifier corresponds to a particular attribute, trait, or cat-
egory of information describing the product, service or other
item to which the object corresponds.

Table 1 contains a listing of field identifiers for a database
storing objects that correspond to products, the names of the
attributes corresponding to each field identifier, and the
descriptions of the attributes corresponding to each fieldiden-
tifier. As shown in Table 1 below, a single field identifier is
defined for each unique attribute. Fields bearing a particular
field identifier store information regarding only the unique
attribute of the product, service or item to which that particu-
lar field identifier corresponds. For example, a field that holds
information about the name of a product is given the field
identifier corresponding to product name. Accordingly, all
fields having a particular identifier store information and
values regarding the same particular attribute of the product,
service or item to which the object corresponds. It will thus be
appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that a database
embodying the data structure of the present invention may be
adapted to store information relating to various products,
services or other items by changing the field identifiers of the
database to reflect general attributes of the product, service or
item to be stored in the database.

TABLE 1

Field

Identifier Field Name Field Description

817 Operating System The required operating system for software to be compatible
with your computer or PDA. Most computers and peripherals
are sold with an operating system already installed.

1150 Hard Drive Capacity The capacity is the amount of storage space available
measured in gigabytes.

1156 Modem Type This refers to the type of modem the product is equipped with
upon purchase. Internal means it is inside of your product.
External means the modem is connected to the outside of your
product. PCMCIA modems are used in laptop computers.
Cable modems require a cable connection rather than a
telephone connection, and cellular modems allow you to
connect to the Internet using a cellular phone.

178 Processor The processor is the chip used to drive the computer. The
number in the processor’s name is how fast the processor has
been clocked to perform. A higher number indicates a
faster processor.

217 Case Style A cabinet that houses the hard drive, floppy drive, and other
inner components of a computer.

383. Olympus NULL

384 Athena

619  SpeakersIncluded These are the type of speakers that come with the product
when you purchase it.

641 Desktops Looking to outfit your home or business with a complete
computing system, or do you just need to upgrade? Here you
will find both stand alone units and complete computing
systems - including keyboard and mouse.

2481 Name The manufacturer, name and model number of the product.

2488 Description Description of the product.

2489 Image URL URL for an image of the product.

2492 Manufacturer ID The name of the manufacturer that makes the product.

2493 Model Number The manufacturer’s model number assigned to the product.

2495 Price This represents the lowest price available from the vendors
selling the product. An “N/A” in this column indicates

hat youknowbest currently does not have any vendors that
sell this product.

2594 = Notes The notes section is reserved for in-house, youknowbest use
only. Anything someone might need to know about the
product that you pick up on can be written here.

2595 Datasheet URL Click on the manufacturer’s datasheet URL and it will take
you directly to the manufacturer’s web page with information
about the product.


US 7,885,982 B2

14

TABLE 1-continued
Field
Identifier Field Name Field Description

3023 Desktop Computers

3221 Computing Everything computer-related you need to organize your
home, business, and personal life - including computers,
laptops, printers, scanners, and more.

3228 Computer Systems Here you will find desktops, laptops, and servers to fit all

your computing needs, whether you are a first time buyer or

a information technology professional.

3423 Modem (yes/no) A modem is needed to be able to connect to the internet.
Some computing devices are equipped with a modem at
purchase and some require an additional purchase in order to
connect.

3424 NIC ANIC or Network Interface Card is a circuit board/card

that is installed and provides capability to connect to a

network.

The types of field identifiers that are available in a database
having a data structure of the invention are defined during
configuration of the database. The particular field identifiers
defined during configuration are based on the general
attributes of the products, services, or other items being stored
in the database. For each attribute for which information is to
be stored in the database, a field identifier is defined. As
described above, each field identifier thus defines the type of
information that will be stored in a field that is assigned that
field identifier. Accordingly, the field identifiers comprise a
form of meta information, or “information about informa-
tion’. In the case of the data structure of the invention, each
field identifier comprises information about the type of infor-
mation held in any field that has been given that field identi-
fier, namely the attribute about which that field holds infor-
mation. Fields comprise information, namely information
describing the attribute of the product, service, or other item
to which the field identifier corresponds.

It is not necessary that each object in the database include
a field corresponding to each of the field identifiers that have
been defined for that database. In particular, an object will not
have a field corresponding to an attribute of the product,
service or other item to which that object relates unless infor-
mation is known about that attribute. For example, while the
weight of certain products may be known, the weight of
others may not. The objects corresponding to the products for
which there is no weight information will have no field cor-
responding to the field identifier for product weight. Like-
wise, an object will not include fields that are not relevant to
the product, service or other item to which the object corre-
sponds. For example, a product to which an object corre-
sponds may have no processor. Thus, that object will have no
field corresponding to the field identifier for processor speed.
Accordingly, the fields in the data structure of each object will
depend on the individual attributes of the product, service or
item to which the object corresponds and the information
known about those attributes. One of ordinary skill in the art
will appreciate that the data structure of an object may also
include different fields depending on whether the item to
which the object corresponds to a product, service, or other
item.

A database having the data structure of the present inven-
tion supports the retrieval of information from the objects in
the database through traditional query methods. For example,

20

25

30

45

65

all of the fields in each object in the database may be queried
to determine if any of the fields in any of the objects in the
database contain a particular value. The data structure
described by the invention also enables databases embodying
the invention to support additional types of query methods
based on the fact that each object in the database need not
include fields corresponding to each of the field identifiers
that have been defined for that database. In particular, it is
possible to define various subsets and lists of the objects
populating a database of the present invention, wherein each
object in the subset or list shares one or more fields that bears
a particular field identifier. In such a case, only those objects
in the database having the attribute to which the particular
field identifier corresponds will be retrieved. For example,
only certain objects may have a screen and thus possess the
attribute of screen resolution. By querying the database to
retrieve those objects that have a field that bears the field
identifier for screen resolution, it is possible to return all
objects that have a screen resolution, regardless of the other
attributes of those objects. One of ordinary skill in the art will
appreciate that the objects returned by the query described in
the previous sentence may be further queried to return those
objects having a screen resolution within a particular range.
Likewise, it will be readily appreciated that the subsets of
objects sharing one common field identifier need not have all
of the same field identifiers and that an object may thus be a
member of multiple groups wherein each group is defined by
those objects sharing a different field identifier.

In the following description of the present invention,
objects stored in a database of the present invention are
referred to in terms of the type of product, service or other
item to which the object corresponds. In particular, an object
corresponding to a product is referred to as “product object”;
an object corresponding to a vendor or provider is referred to
as a “vendor object”; and an object corresponding to a list is
referred to as a “list object”. Likewise, the fields used to store
information in each object and the field identifiers used to
identify the various types of fields that comprise the data
structure of each object are referred to in terms of the attribute
to which the field identifier of each field corresponds. For
example, a field identifier corresponding to the attribute of
product name is referred to as a “product name field identi-
fier” and a field bearing the product name field identifier is
referred to as a “product name field”. The information regard-
ing a particular attribute of the particular product, service or
other item to which an object relates is stored in a field is
referred to interchangeably as “information” or a “value”.

US 7,885,982 B2

15

As noted above, the present invention lends itself to the
creation and maintenance of user-defined electronic lists. One
of ordinary skill in the art will appreciate that the data struc-
ture of the present invention may be adapted to accommodate
the storage of information relating to goods, services or other
items by defining field identifiers in the database that corre-
spond to the attributes of those goods, services or other items.
By way of example, the present invention may be imple-
mented to create a system of databases adapted to create and
maintain electronic lists of products, the vendors at which
those products are sold, and other information regarding the
attributes of those products. A system of databases of the type
described in the current example include a product database
12 and a list database. Both the product database and the list
database are built using the data structure of the present
invention. The product database stores information relating to
the products that make up the lists. The information in the
product database is stored in the form of product objects and
vendor objects. Each product object stores information cor-
responding to a particular product. The information stored in
each product object is specific to the particular product to
which the product object corresponds and that will not vary
depending on the vendor offering that product for sale. For
example, a product object may contain information regarding
the name, model number, and manufacturer of the product, or
information regarding other attributes of the product such as
the weight, speed, and resolution of the product. Table 2
shows an example of the information stored in a product
object of the type described in the present example. As shown
in Table 2, the information stored by the product object is
organized into fields. Each field bears a field identifier corre-
sponding to the attribute to which the information stored in
that field relates. The product object contains fields corre-
sponding only to those attributes relevant to the product to
which the product object corresponds.

10

15

20

25

30

16

Each vendor object stores information corresponding to a
particular version of a particular product being offered by a
particular vendor. The information stored in each vendor
object is specific to the particular version of the particular
product being offered by the particular vendor to which the
vendor object corresponds. For example, the vendor object
contains a pointer referencing the product object correspond-
ing to the product to which the vendor object corresponds. As
noted, this information may be in the form of a pointer which
references the relevant product object. Alternatively, the
information may be in the form of a copy of the relevant
product object itself. The vendor object further includes infor-
mation relating to the particular vendor that is offering the
particular version of the product for sale. This information
may take the form of a pointer or reference to a separate file,
either in the product database as the vendor item or in a
separate database, containing information regarding the ven-
dor. Such information may include, for example, the name
and location of the particular vendor. Alternatively, the infor-
mation regarding the particular vendor may be contained in
the vendor object itself. The vendor object also includes other
information relating to the other attributes of the particular
version of the product to which the vendor object relates. For
example, the vendor object may store information relating to
the price, color, and quantity of the particular version of the
product offered by the vendor to which the vendor object
corresponds. Table 3 shows an example of the information
stored in vendor objects of the type described in the present
example. As shown in Table 3, the information stored by the
vendor objects is organized into fields. Each field bears a field
identifier corresponding to the attribute to which the informa-
tion stored in that field relates. The vendor objects contain
fields corresponding only to those attributes relevant to the
version of the product and the vendor to which the vendor
object corresponds.

TABLE 2
Product Field
Object Identifier Attribute Information/Value
21987 2414 Manufacturer Compaq
2481 Name Compaq iPaq
2488 Description This uniquely designed product is ideal for
corporate network environments and for employees
who primarily use their PC for mainstream office
productivity applications and corporate
Internet/Intranet access.
2489 Image URL http://www. warehouse.com/Mecalmages/www/
prodimage__standard/I77822.jpg
2492 Manufacturer ID 14
2493 Model Number 470018-160
2495 Price 459.97
3365 Q/A Status Acceptei
3423 Modem (yes/no) No
3424 NIC No
2594 Notes kh 12/7 cleanup
2595 Datasheet URL http://www5.compag.com/products/Internetdevices/
Models/iPAQ__175756__003.html
2493 Model Number 7575 6-003
817 Operating System Windows 2000
474 Display Size Inches None
542 Base Memory 28
1150 Hard Drive Capacity 84
1156 Modem Type None
1178 Processor P3-500 MHz
1217 Case Style Mini Tower
1619 Speakers Included ntegrated Speakers
2334 ~=RateltAll.com Ratings 1.0
2344 ConsumerReview.com 5.0
Ratings

US 7,885,982 B2

17 18
TABLE 3
Field
Vendor Item Identifier Attribute Value
9325871 2482 Product Object 21987
2481 Name Compaq iPAQ C/800 20 GB 64 MB NIC Win98
2483 Availability -1
2484 Buy URL http://www 2.warehouse.com/product.asp?pf5Fid=CP 18060&blind=no&cat=pe
2485 Category Hint pe
2489 mage URL http://www 2.warehouse.com/Mecalmages/www/prodimage__standard/I77822.jpg
2491 Manufacturer Compaq Commercial
2492 Manufacturer ID 4
2493 Model Number 470018-160
2495 Price 579
2498 Vendor SKU CP18060
2499 Last Feed Date 008186673
3313 Resolved Buy URL _ http:/Avww2.warehouse.com/product.asp?pf_id=CP18060&blind=no&cat=pe
6359 Additional Audio Output: Sound card-PCI-16-Bit 48 KHz stereo Dimensions (W x D x H):
nformation 5.4 in x 10.3 in x 13.6 in Form Factor: 168-PIN - non-parity -
Storage Hard Drive: 1 x 20 GB internal
9336738 2480 Product Object 21987
2481 Name Compaq iPaq
2483 Availability -
2484 Buy URL http://www.cdw.com/shop/products/default.asp? EDC=3 16787
2488 Description This uniquely designed product is ideal for corporate network environments
2489 mage URL http://webobjects.cdw.com/staticimg/full/3/1/6787.jpg
2491 Manufacturer Compaq Computer
2492 Manufacturer ID 4
2493 Model Number 470018-160
2495 Price 599.86
2498 Vendor SKU 316787
2499 Last Feed Date 008186670
3313 Resolved Buy URL _http:/Avww.cdw.com/shop/products/default.asp? EDC=3 16787
6359 Additional Connectivity Serial port: 1 Parallel port: 1 Video
nformation port: 1 Mouse port: 1 USB port: 2 10/100 Mbps
Ethernet port: 1 Keyboard port: 1 NIC
information: 10/100 Ethernet Additional
information:
9424808 2482 Product Object 21987
2481 Name Compaq Ipaq Legacy Cel 800 MHz
2483 Availability 232
2484 Buy URL http://www.insight.com/web/apps/productpresentation/index.php?product__id=470018-160
2488 Description The Compaq iPAQ desktop is ideal for corporate network environments and employees who
primarily use their PC for mainstream office productivity applications and corporate
nternet/intranet access.
2489 mage URL http://www.insight.com/graphics/us/products/mn/470018-160__mn.jpg
2493 Model Number 470018-160
2495 Price 579.99
2498 Vendor SKU 470018-160
2499 Last Feed Date 008186670
3313. Resolved Buy URL _http:/Avww.insight.com/web/apps/productpresentation/index.php?product__id=470018-160
6359 Additional >> Intel Celeron 800 Mhz Processor >> 64 MB
nformation SDRAM; 20 GB Hard Drive >> Integrated Audio and NIC >> Microsoft Windows 98

Based on the foregoing description, it will be appreciated
by one of ordinary skill in the art that the product database of
the present example contains one product object correspond-
ing to each product for which information is stored in the
product database. However, the database may contain mul-
tiple vendor objects corresponding to each product. In par-
ticular, for any given product object in the database there may
be multiple vendors offering for sale the product to which that
product object corresponds. Likewise, each vendor offering
that product for sale may offer multiple versions of the prod-
uct at different prices. Accordingly, to capture this informa-
tion, the database will contain a vendor object corresponding
to each version of the product being offered by each vendor
offering that product for sale.

The list database 13 of the present example stores infor-
mation relating to lists of products for which there are product
objects in the product database. The lists are stored in the list
database in the form of list objects. Each list object stores

60

65

information corresponding to a particular list of product
objects in the product database. For example, a list object may
contain information regarding the user who created the list, a
unique name for the list, and a password used to access the
list. Each list object further stores information relating to the
product objects in the product database that corresponds to
the products on the list. The information relating to each
product object that corresponds to a product on the list takes
the form of a pointer referencing a product object in the
product database that correspond to products on the list. How-
ever, it will be appreciated that the information relating to
each product object that corresponds to a product on the list
may also take the form of a copy of the product object itself.
Table 4 shows two tables exemplifying the storage of infor-
mation on the list database. As shown in Table 4, information
regarding the lists stored in the list database may be organized
into a table of fields in which each list is identified by a user
identifier indicating the user who generated the list, a list

US 7,885,982 B2

19

identifier indicating the list itself, and a list name identifier
indicating the name given to the list by the user. In addition,
Table 4 shows a depiction of the information stored in a list
object of the type described in the present example. The
information stored by the list objects is organized into fields.
Each field bears field identifiers. As shown in Table 4, a list
object includes a user identifier field containing the user iden-
tifier given to the user who generated the list, a list identifier
field containing a list identifier identifying the particular list
itself, and a product identifier field holding pointers of refer-
ences to the product identifiers of the product in the product
database that are on the list. The list object may also contain
fields corresponding to other attributes of the products on the
list, such as the position on the list held by a particular product
and the source from which the information regarding the
product stored in the product database was obtained.

TABLE 4
List Name
User Identifier List Identifier Identifier
54841 845 Products
946 Christmas Gifts
1023 Wish List
55871 342 Services
563 Gifts
673 Birthday
List Product List Position Source
User Identifier Identifier Identifier Identifier Identifier
54841 845 12346 1
845 12345 2
845 12342 3
845 23423 10

Each list created by the present invention thus defines a
subset of product objects in the product database that are
pointed to by the list object corresponding to that list. Like-
wise, other lists generated by the present invention define
other subsets of the product objects in the product database
that are pointed to by the list objects corresponding to those
lists. Thus, in practice, alist is generated by creating a new list
object in the list database and providing that list object with
information in the form of pointers that refer or point to those
product objects in the product database that correspond to the
products that are to be added to the list. Likewise, a desired list
is retrieved from the list database by querying the list database
to retrieve those lists that have a given value in the field that
bears the field identifier corresponding to the list name. It will
be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art that the
present invention teaches that each product object may be a
member of multiple lists, and that, regardless of the number of
lists that contain a given product object, the database need
only contain a single copy of that given product object.
Accordingly, it will be further appreciated that by updating
the information in a single product object in the product
database, each of the electronic lists that point to that product
are likewise updated.

As noted above, the present invention is well-suited to the
creation and maintenance of user-defined lists of products.
Referring to FIG. 1, what follows below is a description of an
embodiment of the present invention in which the item data-
base described in the example above comprises a product
database 12 and the list database described in the example
above comprises a list database 13 (see Table 4). The product
database 12 is a database having a data structure of the type
described above, populated by product objects and vendor

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

60

65

20

objects. Each product object contains information corre-
sponding to a unique product. Each vendor object contains
information corresponding to a particular version ofa product
offered by a particular vendor or provider. List database 13 is
a database having a data structure of the type described above,
populated by list objects. While the following description is
based on an embodiment of the present invention comprising
a product database populated by product objects and vendor
objects, it will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the art
that the present invention may also embody a service database
populated by service objects, or a mixed database populated
by both product objects and service objects. Thus, in the most
general description of the invention we refer to the database
12 and an item database. In any of these cases, the present
invention is equally effective in creating and maintaining lists
including products, services, or both products and services,
respectively. Likewise, it will further be appreciated that
while the functions of the product database and list database
are described as being carried out on two separate databases,
each embodying the data structure of the present invention, in
alternative embodiments, the functions of the product data-
base and list database may be carried out on the same data-
base, or on multiple product databases and multiple list data-
bases.

The embodiment of the present invention described below
is configured to operate under a client/server computing
model and, in particular, to operate on the system shown in
FIG. 1. The system shown in FIG. 1 includes a server com-
puter system 10, located at a node on a communications
network 20. The system further includes any number of client
computer systems 30, each located at a node on communica-
tions network 20, and product provider computer systems 80,
also located at nodes on communications network 20. Com-
munication is supported between and amongst the nodes on
communications network 20, and thus between server com-
puter systems 10, client computer systems 30, and provider
computer systems 80, through a series of communications
links 22. Communications links 22 of the present invention
may be accomplished by either terrestrial, wireless, or satel-
lite means, provided that communications link 22 is capable
of sustaining electronic communications between the nodes
connected by communications link 22. FIG. 1 also shows
product database 12 residing on server computer system 10.
Accordingly, it will be understood that product database 12 is
in electronic communication with client computer systems 30
and provider computer systems 80 via communications net-
work 20.

As shown in FIG. 1, communications network 20 of the
system on which the present invention may operate includes
the world wide web portion of the Internet (referred to herein
interchangeably as the “Internet” or the “Web”’). However, it
will alternatively be appreciated that communications net-
work 20 may include any other local area network, wide area
network, or communications network capable of supporting
electronic communications between two or more nodes. In
the interest of simplifying the description of the present
invention, FIG. 1 depicts a system including several client
computer systems 30 and several product provider computer
systems 80. However, it will be understood that the present
invention may be implemented to operate on a communica-
tions network 20 having additional client computer systems
30 and additional product provider computer systems 80,
each operating under the principles described herein with
respect to client computer systems 30 and product provider
computer systems 80 shown in FIG. 1. Likewise, while server
computer system 10 is shown in FIG. 1 as being located at a
single node on communications network 20, it will be under-

US 7,885,982 B2

21

stood that the present invention also lends itself to the use of
a server computer system 10 distributed over two or more
nodes on communications network 20.

Server computer system 10 of the system shown in FIG. 1
includes a computer server capable of serving information to
one or more nodes on communications network 20 defined by
the Internet. Client computer system 30 of the system on
which the present invention is intended to operate includes a
personal computer, network terminal, personal digital assis-
tant, telephone, or other electronic device capable of being
operably attached to and communicating over the communi-
cations network 20. Each product provider computer system
80 is a node on communications network 20 through which
vendors and manufacturers of products offer various products
for sale, or through which information regarding products is
made available. As such, in the case that communications
network 20 is the Internet, each product provider computer
system 80 embodies a Web page displaying products offered
for sale and providing various information regarding those
products. In each case, it will be readily understood by one of
ordinary skill in the art that the exact specifications of com-
munications network 20, server computer system 10, and
each client computer system 30 and product provider com-
puter system 80 of the system on which the present invention
is intended to operate will depend on factors such as the
number of nodes on communications network 20, the amount
of information being communicated across communications
network 20, and the desired speed of operation of the present
invention.

The embodiment of the present invention implemented to
operate on the system shown in FIG. 1 includes a manage-
ment tool with which user-defined lists of products may be
created and maintained. The management tool is imple-
mented as a sequence of operations, steps or modules imple-
mented in the form of client-side computer software on client
computer system 30. Accordingly, the management tool is
capable of sustaining communications with server computer
system 10 and, in particular, sending commands and instruc-
tions to server computer system 10 and receiving the results
of those commands and instructions from server computer
system 10. Referring to FIG. 2, the management tool includes
a user interface 40 used to display information regarding the
operation of the management tool on display 32 of client
computer system 30. As shown in FIG. 2, user interface 40
preferably takes the form of a tool bar on an Internet browser
computer software program and includes a series of computer
software-implemented buttons for use in providing instruc-
tions and commands to the management tool. It will be appre-
ciated that user interface 40 may also take the form of a
computer software program that is separate and independent
from any Internet browser computer software program. As
used herein, the term “Internet browser’ is intended to mean
one of the generally available computer software programs
that is used to navigate, access and view the web sites on the
Internet. It is well understood that an Internet browser will
take different embodiments depending on the specifications
of client computer system 30 and display 32 on which the
Internet browser has been implemented. Likewise, user inter-
face 40 of the management tool will take different embodi-
ments depending on client computer system 30 and display
32 on which user interface 40 is implemented.

As noted above, the management tool includes a series of
computer software-implemented buttons used to issue com-
mands to the management tool to perform certain operations
on the list database and product database. In particular, the
embodiment of user interface 40 depicted in FIG. 2 includes
a new list button 41, open button 42, find button 44, and add

20

25

40

45

60

65

22

button 46. It will be appreciated by one of ordinary skill in the
art that while the embodiment shown in FIG. 1 includes the
aforementioned buttons, alternative embodiments of the
management tool may include additional buttons providing
for other operations to be performed on the list database and
the product database, and the list objects, product objects, and
vendor objects contained therein. New list button 41 is used to
issue a command to the management tool to create a new list
in list database 13. Open button 42 is used to issue a command
to the management tool to retrieve a list of product objects
from list database 13 and to display that list on user interface
40. Find button 44 is used to issue a command to the man-
agement tool to search product database 12 for a product
object corresponding to a product having certain characteris-
tics and to display the results of that search on user interface
40. A user utilizes add button 46, preferably by clicking on it,
to issue a command to the management tool to add a product
object corresponding to the product information displayed in
product information field 48 to a list that has already been
retrieved to user interface 40. A further description of the
operation of user interface, and the buttons and fields dis-
played thereon, follows below.

The embodiment of the present invention described herein
teaches that a list may be created by providing the manage-
ment tool with the information necessary to create a new list
and instructing the management tool to establish a new list by
selecting new list button 41. The information necessary to
establish a new list includes a list name or code by which the
list will be identified. The list name or code may include, for
example, a user name and password. In the present embodi-
ment of the invention, the list name or code is provided to the
management tool and new list button 41 is selected. Respon-
sive to such command, the management tool instructs list
database 13 to create a new list object and to create a field in
the new list object to store the list name or code provided to
the management tool. It will be understood from the forego-
ing description that the field identifier given to the field stor-
ing the list name or code is the same field identifier that is
given to the field in all other list objects that stores the name
or code for those list objects. Once created, the list may be
updated and managed, as is described in greater detail below.
A previously created list may be accessed from any client
computer system 30 on communications network 40 by enter-
ing the unique list identifier associated with the list into the
management tool. In practice, a list identifier is entered into a
data field on user interface 40. The management tool trans-
mits a query to list database 41 to identify and retrieve to the
management tool those list objects having a list identifier
corresponding to the list identifier entered into user interface
40. As shown in FIG. 2, upon retrieval of the list objects
corresponding to the entered list identifier, the product data-
base is queried to obtain information regarding each of the
product objects pointed to by the list object and the manage-
ment tool generates a graphical representation of list 50
including graphical representations of each of product objects
52 pointed to by the list object. The information stored in the
vendor objects that refer to each of the product objects
pointed to by the list object may then be accessed by selecting
any of the graphical representations of product objects 52
displayed in the graphical representation of list 50. In an
alternative embodiment of the invention, the graphical repre-
sentation of list 50 may itself include a graphical representa-
tion of the vendor objects that refer to each of the product
objects pointed to by the list object. As will be described
below, the list that is currently being displayed on user inter-
face 40 may be managed. Management of the list may
include, for example, making additions to or subtractions

US 7,885,982 B2

23

from the list. The list that is currently being displayed on user
interface 40 will be referred to herein as the “current list” As
the foregoing description indicates, the present embodiment
of the invention teaches that the product objects and vendor
objects comprising a list are retrieved from product database
12 on server computer system 10 to the management tool on
client computer system 30. As a result, it will be appreciated
that each list created by the present invention is a universal list
insofar as the product objects and vendor objects comprising
the list may be retrieved from server computer system 10 to a
management tool resident on any client computer system 30
on communications network 20, regardless of where the list
was originally created or accessed in the past.

A product may be added to the current list by locating a
product object corresponding to that product in product data-
base 12 and adding a pointer referring to that product object to
the list object corresponding to the current list. As shown in
FIG. 3, user interface 40 of the management tool includes a
search field 54. In practice, a description of a product is
entered into search field 54 and find button 44 is selected. A
query command is issued by the management tool to product
database 12. Responsive to the query command, product data-
base 12 retrieves to the management tool all product objects
having fields that contain information corresponding to the
description entered into search field 54. A graphical represen-
tation of the retrieved product objects is generated and dis-
played in the form of a list 56 on user interface 40. A desired
product 58 from list 56 may be added to the current list by
identifying a desired product 58 to be added to the current list
and selecting add button 46. Responsive to such command,
the management tool instructs the list database to add to the
list object corresponding to current list a pointer referring to
the product object that corresponds to desired product 58 and,
as shown in FIG. 3, add a graphical representation 60 of the
product object corresponding to desired product 58 to the
graphical representation of current list 50.

The present invention also teaches that a product may be
added to a current list by detecting and capturing information
regarding that product from a provider computer system 80.
As shown in FIG. 4, upon locating a product provider com-
puter system 80 that includes a display of information 62
regarding a particular product, the management tool detects
and captures the display of information 62 regarding the
product on provider computer system 80. Based on the
detected and captured information, the management tool que-
ries product database 12 to determine if product database 12
includes a product object corresponding to the product for
which information 62 has been detected and captured, and a
vendor object corresponding to the vendor and version of the
product for which information 62 has been detected and cap-
tured. If product database 12 does not include a product object
or a vendor object corresponding to the product for which
information 62 has been detected and captured, a new product
object corresponding to the product for which information 62
has been detected and captured, and a new vendor object
corresponding to the vendor of the product and the version of
the product for which information 62 has been detected and
captured, are created using information 62. If product data-
base 12 includes a product object corresponding to the prod-
uct for which information 62 has been detected and captured,
but does not include a vendor object corresponding to the
version of the product and the vendor offering the product, a
new vendor object corresponding to the vendor of the product
and the version of the product is created. As will be appreci-
ated from this description, information 62 that has been
detected and captured is categorized and associated with an
attribute for which a field has been created in the product

20

25

40

45

60

65

24

database and stored in the field corresponding to that attribute
in either the product object or vendor object. As will be
described in greater detail below, the present embodiment of
the invention accommodates the verification of information
62 prior to the creation of the product object and vendor
object.

If product database 12 contains an existing product object
and vendor object corresponding to the product for which
information 62 has been detected and captured, information
62 contained in the existing product object and vendor object
is compared against the detected and captured information
62. If the detected and captured information 62 is not present
in the product object and vendor object, the detected and
captured information 62 is verified and, pending verification,
the product object and vendor object is updated to include the
detected and captured information 62. If the detected and
captured information 62 is present in the product object and
the vendor object, the product object and vendor object are
not modified. In either case, the management tool then dis-
plays the information from the new, updated, or existing
product object, as applicable, in product information field 48.
The product for which information 62 has been detected and
captured may be added to the current list by selecting add
button 46. Responsive to such command, the management
tool adds a pointer to the product object or vendor object
corresponding to the information displayed in product infor-
mation field 48 to the list object corresponding to the current
list and, as shown in FIG. 5, adds a graphical representation
64 of the product object corresponding to the information
displayed in product information field 48 to the graphical
representation of list 50 on user interface 12.

As noted above, the present embodiment of the invention
teaches that information 62 regarding a product that is
detected and captured from a provider computer system 80
may be verified prior to being incorporated into either a new
or existing product object or vendor object. The step of veri-
fication may include a comparison of the detected and cap-
tured information 62 against existing records to determine if
the detected and captured information 62 corresponds in form
and range to existing information for similar products. The
step of verification may also include comparison against
records provided by a manufacturer or vendor of a product to
determine if the detected and captured information 62 corre-
sponds with the existing records. Verification may include a
manual verification by a system operator. By way of example,
the model numbers and serial numbers used by a particular
manufacturer generally will follow a format unique to that
manufacturer. Thus, a form of verification may include
checking the model and serial number found in the detected
and captured information 62 against the format of the model
and serial number used by the manufacturer of the product
corresponding to the detected and captured information 62.
By way of further example, verification may include check-
ing the model number found in the detected and captured
information 62 against the product objects in product data-
base 12 that have the same model number to determine if
other information found in the detected and captured infor-
mation 62 (such as the product name and manufacturer)
matches the equivalent information found in the product
objects having the same model number. Still another example
of verification may include checking the price found in the
detected and captured information 62 to determine if it falls
within a reasonable range of the prices for the product to
which the detected and captured information 62 corresponds.

It is noted above that the present embodiment of the inven-
tion teaches that, in performing the step of comparing the
product objects and vendor objects in product database 12

US 7,885,982 B2

25

against the detected and captured information 62, the man-
agement tool updates the product object corresponding to the
product, and the vendor object corresponding to the vendor
and version of the product, to include the captured and
detected information 62. The process of updating the product
and vendor objects generally includes adding information to
the product and vendor objects that is not yet included in the
product and vendor objects or adding information to the prod-
uct and vendor objects that is more current or more desirable
than the existing information in the existing product and
vendor object. By way of example, if information 62 detected
and captured from provider computer system 80 includes a
price for the product that is lower (and thus more desirable)
than the price then included in the vendor object, pending
verification (as discussed above), the vendor object will be
updated to reflect the lower price and the vendor offering that
lower price. Likewise, if information 62 detected and cap-
tured from provider computer system 80 includes a price for
the product that is higher (and thus less desirable) than the
price then included in the vendor object, pending verification,
the vendor object will not be updated to reflect the higher
price. In either case, the information regarding the product
displayed in product information field 48 will reflect the
lower of the captured and detected price and the price
included in the vendor object. Accordingly, by way of further
example, and as shown in FIG. 5, while information 62
detected and captured from product provider computer sys-
tem 80 reflects a price of $194.88 for the product, the infor-
mation displayed in product information field 48 reflects a
lower price of $174.94 that had been included in the vendor
object for that product.

The present invention further teaches that a product may be
added to a list by manually entering information regarding
that product into the management tool. In the case of manual
entry, information regarding a product is entered into product
information field 48, and add button 46 is selected. Respon-
sive to this command, the management tool captures the
manually entered information from product information field
48, creates a new product object and a new vendor object
corresponding to the product corresponding to the manually
entered product information, and revises product database 12
to include that new product object and vendor object.

Products may also be deleted from a list by selecting the
graphical representation of the product object to be deleted
from the graphical representation of list 50 and selecting
delete button 65. Responsive to this command, the manage-
ment tool removes the pointer to the selected product object
from the list object corresponding to the current list, thus
removing the product from the current list. It will be appre-
ciated that by deleting a product from a list, the product object
corresponding to that product is not also deleted from product
database 12, and that the product object will remain listed on
any other user-defined lists that contain a pointer referencing
that product object.

One of ordinary skill in the art will understand that refer-
ences made herein to “identifying”, “selecting”, or “activat-
ing” a button on a computer screen are intended to refer to the
act of issuing a command to the computer to choose and enact
the computer-implemented set of commands associated with
that button. Such acts are commonly accomplished by posi-
tioning a pointer above the button and depressing one or more
of the buttons on a mouse device, by tapping on the button
with a stylus device, or by any other conventionally known
process or operation generally known in the art.

As is noted above, each user-defined list generated by the
present invention is a list of pointers or references to product
objects in product database 12 wherein each product object

10

15

20

25

30

35

40

45

50

55

60

65

26

corresponds to a particular product and includes fields con-
taining information regarding that product. Likewise, each
product object is referenced by one or more vendor objects in
product database 12 wherein each vendor object corresponds
to a particular version of the product being offered by a
particular vendor. Given that the information included in the
product objects pointed to in each list, and the vendor objects
referencing those product objects, are subject to periodic
updates as described above, it should be understood that each
time that a list is accessed, the information retrieved from the
product objects pointed to by that list, and the vendor objects
referenced by those product objects, will reflect any updates
that have been made to that information in the interim since
that list was last accessed. Put another way, by updating a
single product object to include new information, all lists that
contain pointers to that product object are thereby updated to
include the new information. By way of example, ifa product
object pointed to by a particular list is updated after the
pointer to that product object is added to the list (or after that
list has been last accessed), the next time the list is accessed,
the list will reflect the updated product object, rather than the
product object in the form that it existed when it was added to
the list (or when the list was last accessed). Accordingly, the
present embodiment of the invention provides the benefit of
being self-updating through use. In particular, as users create
and maintain lists of products, new and updated information
is stored in the product database in the form of new product
objects and updates to existing product objects, as is
described in detail above. As new product objects and updates
to existing product objects are stored in the product database,
the lists referencing those product objects are automatically
updated to include such new information. Accordingly, the
present invention provides the benefit of supporting the gen-
eration and maintenance of lists that are automatically
updated as the product objects and vendor objects in the
product database are updated.

In addition to new and updated information being provided
to product database 12 through users of the database, product
database 12 may also be populated with new and updated
product objects received directly from vendors and manufac-
turers of products. In such an embodiment, a file containing
product information may be received from a vendor or manu-
facturer and the product information directly input into prod-
uct database 12. Alternatively, a communications link may be
established between computer systems operated by the ven-
dors and manufacturers of products and product database 12.
Such communications link may take the form of communi-
cations network 20, or any other generally accepted form of
electronic communication. Once such a link is established,
updated product information from those vendors and manu-
facturers may be sent directly to product database 12. In either
case, it will be appreciated that the vendors and manufactur-
ers of products may be able to provide information relating to
the products that is not generally available for detection and
capture from provider sites 80. For example, while a provider
site 80 may not include information pertaining to the existing
inventory and availability of a product offered for sale on
provider site 80, the vendor or manufacturer may, in addition
to the attributes noted above, provide real-time, up-to-date
information relating to existing inventory and availability of
their products.

While the embodiment of the present invention shown in
the figures and described above includes product database 12
and list database 13 as resident on server computer system 10,
in an alternate embodiment, the management tool of the
present invention includes a database on client computer sys-
tem 30 for storing copies of the lists accessed through that

US 7,885,982 B2

27

client computer system 30. It will be appreciated that, by
maintaining a database of the lists accessed through a client
computer system 30 on that client computer system 30, such
lists may be accessed from the copy on client computer sys-
tem 30 rather than from product database 12. Accordingly, it
will be appreciated that such an embodiment allows for the
list to be accessed when client computer system 30 is not in
communication with server computer system 10 via commu-
nications network 20. In such an embodiment, upon access-
ing list database 13 to retrieve a list, the management tool will
execute the additional step of checking for differences
between the copy of the list maintained on client computer
system 10 and the list retrieved from list database 13. In the
event that differences are detected, the management tool will
synchronize the record of the list on the client computer
system with the list retrieved from list database 13.

In addition to providing a tool with which consumers may
create and maintain lists of products and services, as
described above, the present invention also lends itself to the
generation of manufacturer-defined lists of vendors who offer
that manufacturer’s products for sale. In particular, a product
manufacturer may maintain a web site on which the manu-
facturer displays information regarding its products. As
shown in FIG. 6, such a web site may include a display of
information 66 regarding a product produced by that manu-
facturer and a hyperlink button 68 to further information
regarding the product. However, unless the manufacturer has
established a relationship with a vendor of its products, or
unless the manufacturer has established a means to offer its
own products for sale on its web site, a potential customer
visiting the web site will be required to leave the manufac-
turer’s web site and locate the web site of a vendor of that
manufacturer’s products before being able to purchase the
products displayed on the manufacturer’s web site. The
present invention may be used to provide such a manufacturer
with the ability to offer a list of updated information on its
web site regarding the vendors that offer its products for sale,
and with the ability to facilitate a direct link from the manu-
facturer’s web site to web sites maintained by such vendors
where the manufacturer’s products may be purchased online.

As shown in FIG. 6, under this aspect of the present inven-
tion, the manufacturer’s web site has been equipped with a
button 70 linking the display of information 66 to a separate
Web page including information regarding the pricing and
availability of product described in information 66. By select-
ing the pricing and availability button 70, the manufacturer’s
web site queries product database 12 to retrieve the product
object in product database 12 that corresponds to the product
for which information 66 is displayed on the manufacturer’s
web site, and the vendor objects referencing that product
object. Referring to FIG. 7, product database 12 generates a
graphical representation 72 of the product object for the prod-
uct to which information 66 corresponds, and the vendor
objects referencing that product object. Graphical represen-
tation 72 may include any of the information that is stored in
the fields of the product object and the vendor object. In the
embodiment shown in FIG. 7, graphical representation 72
includes information regarding the pricing and availability of
the product and hyperlinks to the web sites maintained by the
vendors at which the product is offered for sale. By selecting
one or more of the hyperlinks, a user of the manufacturer’s
web site may link directly to a web site maintained by a
vendor of the products produced by that manufacturer with-
out leaving the web site of the manufacturer.

As noted above, the list generated on the manufacturer’s
web site by the present invention is a manufacturer-defined
list. Accordingly, the present invention teaches that the manu-

20

25

40

45

60

65

28

facturer may select what portion of the information stored in
the fields of the product object and vendor object is to be
displayed in graphical representation 72. For example, the
manufacturer operating the web site shown in FIG. 7 has
chosen that graphical representation 72 include information
on price and availability of the product for Vendors A-C.
However, it should be appreciated that the information actu-
ally stored in the product object may include additional infor-
mation regarding the product, and the information stored in
the vendor objects referencing that product object may
include information regarding additional vendors of that
product, and that the manufacturer may have chosen to selec-
tively suppress such additional information from graphical
representation 72. By way of example, the manufacturer may
have instead elected to suppress the display of certain vendor
identifiers that correspond to vendors that are not preferred
vendors of the manufacturer. Likewise, the manufacturer may
have elected to display only certain information regarding the
product, while suppressing other information from graphical
representation 72.

Accordingly, there has been described herein a new and
novel database and method of operation to facilitate the gen-
eration and maintenance of lists of information contained in
the database. It should be understood that the particular
embodiments shown in the drawings and described within
this specification are for purposes of example and should not
be construed to limit the invention which will be described in
the claims below. Further, it is evident that those skilled in the
art may now make numerous uses and modifications of the
specific embodiments described, without departing from the
inventive concepts. Itis also evident that the steps recited may
in some instances be performed in a different order; or equiva-
lent structures and processes may be substituted for the vari-
ous structures and processes described.

What is claimed as new and desired to be protected by
Letters Patent of the United States is:

1. A method for offering products and services for sale, the
method comprising:

(a) establishing a first list of goods or services on a server
of a manufacturer related to a website of the manufac-
turer, wherein the first list of goods or services includes
a first list object, wherein the first list object includes a
first list field, and wherein the first list field has a first list
field identifier;

(b) establishing a direct link from the first list to a second
list of goods and services on a server of a retailer related
to a website of the retailer;

(c) presenting at least a portion of the first list of goods or
services to a consumer at the website of the manufac-
turer;

(d) receiving an indication of interest in a good or service,
wherein the good or service corresponds to a first list
object in the first list of goods or services;

(e) linking directly to the second list of goods and services
at the website of the retailer without leaving the website
of the manufacturer, wherein the second list of goods
and services has a plurality of second list objects
wherein each of the plurality of second list objects
includes a second list field, and wherein the second list
field has a second list field identifier and the second list
field identifier is the same as the first list field identifier.

2. The method of claim 1, further comprising:

(f) automatically updating the first list of goods or services
on the server of the manufacturer when the second list is
updated.

3. The method of claim 2 wherein the updating of (f) occurs

each time the first list of goods or services is accessed.

US 7,885,982 B2

29

4. The method of claim 1 wherein the establishing of (b)
includes:

i) generating a second list identifier corresponding to the

second list of goods and services; and

ii) associating the second list identifier with the first list
identifier.

5. The method of claim 4 wherein the second list identifier

is unique.

6. The method of claim 1 wherein the first list object is a
copy of at least a portion of a second list object contained in
the second list of goods or services.

7. The method of claim 1 wherein the first list field contains
a pointer referencing a second object in the second list of
goods or services.

8. The method of claim 1, further comprising:

(g) establishing a first plurality of additional lists of prod-

ucts or services at the manufacturer server;

(h) establishing a plurality of direct links from the first
plurality of additional lists to a second plurality of addi-
tional lists of goods and services on a plurality of retail
servers; and

(1) associating each of the first list and the first plurality of
additional lists with a corresponding list identifier.

9. The method of claim 8 wherein each list identifier is

associated with a particular product.

10. The method of claim 1 wherein the second list field is
one of a plurality of list fields corresponding to each of the
plurality of second list objects further comprising:

(f) displaying less than all of the plurality of list fields

according to the selection of the manufacturer.

11. A method for a manufacturer to link to products for sale
through manufacturer websites, the method comprising:

(a) establishing a list database on a manufacturer server, the
list database including a first plurality of lists, each asso-
ciated with a corresponding list identifier, the first plu-
rality of lists including a first list associated with a first
list identifier, wherein each list identifier and each list of
the first plurality relates to a product, wherein each of the
plurality of first lists includes a first list object, wherein
the first list object includes a first list field, and wherein
the first list field has a first list field identifier;

wa

10

20

25

30

30

(b) establishing a plurality of direct links from the first
plurality of lists to a second plurality of lists on a plural-
ity of vendor servers related to a plurality of vendors,
wherein the first list has a first direct link to a second list;

(c) receiving an indication, from a consumer at a manufac-
turer website, related to a desired product corresponding
to the first list; and

(d) linking directly to the second list according to the first
direct link, wherein the user remains at the manufacturer
website, wherein only those objects having a second list
field identifier matching the first list field identifier are
retrieved.

12. The method of claim 11 wherein the first direct link is

formed by:

i) generating a second list identifier corresponding to the
second list; and

ii) associating the second list identifier with the first list
object.

13. The method of claim 11 wherein the associating

includes storing the second list identifier in the first list field.

14. A method implemented by a server computer opera-

tively coupled across a network to a client computer, the
method comprising:

(a) responsive to receipt of data from a management tool
executing on the client computer, establishing a first list
associated with the user on a list database, said list
database including a plurality of lists, each associated
with a corresponding list identifier, the first list being
associated with a first list identifier;

(b) receiving the first list identifier from the client computer
system;

(c) responsive to receiving the first list identifier:

i) retrieving the first list from the list database; and

i1) communicating the first list to the management tool
for presentation to the user, the management tool
allowing the user to revise the first list to generate a
revised first list; and

(d) responsive to receiving data from the client computer
corresponding to the revised first list, updating the first
list in the list database to reflect the revised first list.

* * * * *
